[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

It had become clear to us that the newcomers were from Alt Mora, and they were the descendants of the Doom Drum. But that was not a concern in those times. They had conducted themselves with civility. With the death of their god, we had no reason to suppose that they wished us any further ill. We were wrong.

Their city was called Sarth-El, and it was made of ugly-hewn blocks of stone with flat lintels and few arches. Swathes of woodland had been cleared in its creation, and with no light-stones they resorted to great flaming beacons and torches to afford themselves the merest heat and warmth required for their kind. It was fully a quarter-mile along each wall, and hundreds or perhaps even thousands of Altmorans had made it their abode. They were a hard race, scarred by the ravages of time and the colds of the land in which they had been raised. They stood taller than us, and the muscles in their arms and legs were fit to crack tree-trunks without a great deal of exertion. It stood some thirty miles to the north-east of Abalavar, on the coast of the Whispering Ocean. It was considered by most of us to be unsightly, and so we avoided the place when we had no cause to draw near.

But these new men of Altmora were our neighbours, and they were familiar with the ways of snow. They were skilled at taking the furs of animals and making them into warm robes, and they traded with us these garments in return for potions and the produce of our own farms. They were ungainly but they were not uncivil.

What came to pass following those early times I cannot yet fully account for, but I remember well the morning coming when it was announced that we would march on Sarth-El and lay siege to it. When I asked the other warriors, I heard varying reasons for our sudden and unexpected change in diplomacy. Some were firm that we had been attacked in the previous week and that the Doom Drum had returned among us to wreak havoc. Others stated that it was to prevent a planned attack, and others were adamant that we had been instructed to perform this act by the Ancestors themselves.

The siege was not a lengthy one. We breached the Altmoran defences by employing the element of surprise, and made for a particular entrance. The sequence of events that followed is muddled to me even now, for we did not take full advantage of the surprise and instead forced our way into some fairly nondescript hallways in the typically unaesthetic style of the rest.

I will not lay out the full results of that battle for it brings me no small amount of uncertain guilt, especially looking back now on what we had so eagerly wrought. By now, the Altmorans have returned in great number, bearing terrible weapons and magics. I had not expected such a grand retaliation for our trespass, another fruit of my own folly that has soured me to my twilight days.

What I do know is that Sarth-El was occupied by our soldiers for some time while the Altmorans were preparing their return. Only a very select few sages were permitted to enter the inner sanctum, though it is still not clear to me by whose authority this was settled. When I questioned my fellow warriors, I found similarly bewildered answers.

As time went on, the chatter of the soldiers guarding Sarth-El became less well-guarded, and I was able to learn something of the strangeness of our night mission. We had been attempting to locate and secure something of unusual importance that the Altmorans had supposedly stolen from one of our cities, though it was never stated which city, and some soldiers believed that the object in question had been found by the Altmorans in place, and it had not been stolen at all.

I never confronted the sages on the matter, since they had been almost venemously secretive over the whole affair, but I was able to overhear from them some details.

The picture I have now is this: The thing underneath Sarth-El had been a relic of the Dawn War, and it was something that could, if unlocked or used just so, assure victory for one side or the other in a re-enactment of said conflict. I don't know if the Altmorans knew what it was, but apparently the risk that they might learn, and decide to restart the Dawn War, was so great that it had to be risked. 

Of course, now we - the children of Auri-El - find ourselves in a war with the children of Lorkhan once again, and this time we do not have beloved Trinimac to lead us to victory. Our fear and arrogance has led us to flee half of our cities, though our sages are confident that the war will not last much longer.

Though there is a group of them, I think, that has managed to secure some kind of knowledge from the thing found under Sarth-El. They are keeping this knowledge to themselves for now, but they have declared it paramount that it be recorded for all time. I have heard it said that if the worst comes to pass, the knowledge is to be recorded to paragon-stones in "the shape and form of Xarxes' eyes".

I do not know what is meant by any of this, but I fear that their long-sighted plans may be more pessimistic than the security they give to the soldiers.