When dies a brave warrior loyal to the true gods, their body must be so preserved that their soul might enter long-sleeping Sovngarde while the corpse keeps all-waking vigil on the tombs where dwell their kin.

As so do we make the first offering to the Snake at birth, that the coil he forms round us in life may ever be.

And at death we make the second offering to the Snake, so that the body be made perfect and the soul goes to the deserved rest.

And then comes the third offering to the Snake, which is the removal and the awakening of the flesh.

The priest of the Snake makes the Draugr from the corpse thus.

First, the tools are gathered. These are:

The Borr, which opens the holes in the skull and the chest.

The Skrovhacka, which removes wayward stands holds back the flaps of skin.

The Skalpell, which performs the careful cuts.

The Seax, which performs the broad cuts.

First the stomach and the large entrails are removed. These are added to the pyre. The lungs must be left in place for the Draugr may need to use the Voice even in death.

The lesser entrails are removed and kept to the side. They should be allowed to dry slightly but not totally. When this is done, they should be cut into lengths and used to replace the weaker muscles. These are sewn on with rabbit sinew. They will last longer than the weaker muscles and allow the Draugr to walk.

The eyes should opened at the front and into them should be poured a mixture of honey and blue bellflower. 

Once this is done, all scars must be stitched shut and the eyelids peeled back. The body must be wrapped in bonds of fur and placed onto their resting beds once the last rites have been performed and all the removed organs have been burnt and placed in urns.

After many years the ancient magicks of the Snake, which run like blood through all the temples of the true gods, will fill the bodies and they will be able to awaken as Draugr. First they will remove their bonds and then they will begin to attend to the fires and the wards of their tombs. They will fulfil this duty for eternity or until slain.

If they have been buried alongside an ancient priest, they may sometimes attend to that priest in death. This is not something the living priests and balsamers need to concern themselves with.