[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

Communion with the Dead

by The Emerald Observer
</p>

[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
To speak with the dead, with all the elaboration possible between two living lovers, with the dearly departed having full and radiant command of their own memories and passions, is a tiring art and one managed by few. Even those reanimated vessels that maintain a vestige of speech or wisdom can but rarely indulge the living with their conversation.

To call forth the spirit of the dead is possible, though their remains must be kept safe. They must be warded with magicka to keep their connection to the lost stable in the event they should be so invoked. The Consecrations of Arkay will prevent this method of communion entirely, so the devout of the divines may not be contacted unless they have perished away from their appointed time. Sometimes it is possible to speak with a spirit before the final rite of Arkay has been performed, after which they will become one with the eternal cycle.

In Morrowind the art of speaking with the dead has been woven firmly into the Temple's doctrine, but it may only be practiced by those Dunmer who wish to contact their ancestors personally, and only in rare cases will the Temple allow otherwise. Dunmer spirits only return to the mortal realm out of duty, and this duty is something promised on their funerary robes in solemn daedric characters. Oaths of house and ancestry are made which compel the spirits out of duty to return for those moments. They report that they do not love returning to the mortal sphere, but prefer the gentle embrace of the spirit realm.

If ones beloved have been buried without such promises, it makes it far harder to command their spirit to return, even for an instant. And so the bereaved must either make peace with their loss until they join them in Aetherius, or they must force wide the veils of the spirit plane themselves.

This is a dangerous process, because if the soul does not wish to commune with the living, they may become aggressive. Thus one must choose between means of binding the soul, or welcoming them.

Binding souls is a cruel process, but necessary in some cases. Greater spiritual powers such as Daedra may be invoked to keep a spirit in place long enough for questioning. Certain runes may be lain down in a circle of salt or chalk that prevents them demonstrating their hostility, followed by spells of command. This is how the Tribunal Temple calls forth spirits for questioning. Once the questioning is done, the spirit must be released as quickly and as calmly as possible.

Welcoming a soul involves chanting the name while casting the necessary incantations required to gain the spirit's intention. This is how the Dunmer call forth family spirits. Items relating to the departed's life, or the presence of their loved ones, can assist in persuading the spirit to take a brief if mildly painful soujourn to the waking world. As before, once the union is concluded, the dead must be allowed to return to Aetherius in peace.

