Many are the ancient pathways of Skyrim, which wend through forgotten forests and old caves. Nature is the sacred domain of Kyne, and all those who walk through her embrace do so as pilgrimage, provided that they do so without bringing harm to her creation.

The most famous path is the Seven Thousand Steps of High Hrothgar, which lead to the monastery of the Greybeards. Those who meditate at the various shrines that lead to the monastery have been known to receive the blessings of nature - some who have completed it say that they can walk among wolves and bears without fear. Others say that they have brought a bountiful boon to their harvests, or have discovered troves of rare plants for the creation of medicines. The path does not lead all the way to the summit; only very few have ever been granted the privilege of standing atop the Throat of the World.

But all of Skyrim's wilds are sacred; pathways that lead to the tops of mountains always bring the blessings of Kyne, from the small to the considerable. Mountain pathways are dangerous, however - a misplaced foot or ill-timed jump has led to the demise of many a careless pilgrim. For many, it is worth the risk.

Some pathways lead through the woods to ancient groves - these are less dangerous to manage by foot, but the pilgrim must be wary nonetheless - many of these sites are home to Kyne's most dangerous servants. Spriggans, Wisps and wild animals guard these sites and will attack any who approach, usually regardless of their intentions. 

All of Skyrim's wilds are dangerous. Animals and perilous terrain are one matter, but many old caves and ruins are haven to brigands, monsters and forgotten cults. For the pilgrim who is lacking in might of arms, the safest way to commune with Kyne is to take to areas not too far from towns and cities, but unspoilt by the works of man. Riverbanks, tundra and the edges of lakes make for comparatively safe pilgrimages to the mother of storms. But Kyne favours the bold and the fierce, and those who can manage her more dangerous trials will always win more of her favour.