<font face="$HandwrittenFont">

After a great deal of scrying, and the prolonged questioning of several Daedra, I have unearthed some book locations. Soon I will have knowledge to rival old Shalidor himself, and put the other witches and covens to shame.

LIBRARY OF DUSK - MISSING BOOKS

EPISTOLARY ACUMEN - This unusual invocation, set to a rare octameter, was previously in the Library of Dusk in the plane of Coldharbour. The Dremora I spoke to said the manner of theft was in keeping with Dwarven time-shifting. It could be in a Dwemer ruin by now.

CONVERSATIONS WITH THE HEART OF LORKHAN - My old friend Harkalavin managed to lay his hands on this one before he disappeared. Silly boy. How he got it I don't know.
According to his journals, he had made a pact with some group called the Ideal Masters. He was to give them the book, 'For safe custody of the Keepers', in exchange for an unspecified amount of magickal power. I hope it was worth it.

THE TRACT OF MERID-NUNDA - The complete edition of this Ayleid work explaining the mysteries of Meridia was stolen from the Library of Dusk by Evariel Direnni in the Second Era, it remained in the possession of that clan's holdings until recently when it was stolen by the necromancer Malkoran, who was also responsible for the taking of the sword Dawnbreaker from the Camlorn chapter of the Vigilants of Stendarr. Current whereabouts unknown. Now that would look good on my shelf!

THE ATHEDORIX CONUNDRUMS - Supposedly the answers to these questions were capable of turning people insane. Stolen by agents of Zurin Arctus at the end of the Second Era.
Stolen from the palace in the mid-third era by the young Potema, her diary from near the end of her life indicates that she had planned to give it to her nephew Pelagius. That would explain a thing or two.

THE HOSIRIC LAYS - None of the volumes are still in the library. But these ancient Nordic poems, or Cyro-Nordic, turn up around the place from time to time.
The Lay of Isgramore - Until recently in the possession of Jarl Skald of Dawnstar. Believed to have been stolen by a local necromancer who had been abducting womenfolk.
The Lay of Ismere - Fell into the hands of a group of witches on Solstheim, who were subsequently eradicated by the Imperial Garrison of Fort Frostmoth.
The Lay of (Gomlath?) - Uncertain origin, of interest to the Dragonguard in the First Era but it is not known if they were successful in finding it.

THE DAMNED EQUATION - Stolen from the Imperial Library at some time during the Great War, this holy tome of Julianos supposedly outlines the correct principles of numerology. Julianos isn't a popular god in Skyrim these days, but until recently it was in the care of the Bards' College at Solitude, when it was then stolen by a young student along with a priceless flute. Poor dearie.

HARMONIC ASTRONYMICS - The Dwemer tome that the Second Era Stargazers sought so hard. The limited Dwarven texts from the period state that it was 'A focus for great debate'. It's hard to say if that narrows down the search or not - I am not especially familiar with Dwemer ruins yet.

THE SEVENTY-SEVEN DOCTRINES - The original, hand-written manuscript by Marukh himself, detailing the strictures by which mortals should live. Until recently it was in the possession of Skyrim's royal family, but it was seized by the Thalmor. Probably in Northwatch Keep.

THE THIRD SCROLL OF BAAN DAR - Supposedly a tale of how Baan Dar, the thief god of the Khajiit and Bosmer, stole a book that Vivec had yet to write. Has been in Dunmer hands for some years now, believed to have been interred with one of the Redoran families in Raven Rock.

I'll keep my eyes out for more. 

</font>