[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Mortal Taxonomies

by Seeker T'uuhgi Hlaeer




Volume IV: Other Mortal Species

</p>
<p align="left">
Of the remaining mortal species not covered already, there are two worth discussing in any detail. I shall not go into the sub-species and divergent morphologies of these species, as they are of value to a different strain of academia.

Argonians are a species of reptilian that evolved from more simple forms into the bipedal forms witnessed in Argonia, as a result of their diet of the sap of the Hist Tree. This diet has granted them acute senses on a parallel with Mer and Men, and their overall physique has been altered by the trees to suit. Though able to act with independent thought, specimens may spontaneously be controlled by the Hist's hive-mind when threatened. The Hist are also capable of making Argonians in any shape they choose - meaning it is entirely possible for there to be specimens mimicking Men or Mer within those societies.

Khajiit are a species whose exact nature is something of an enigma. Some appear to be close relatives to Bosmer, but others appear like simple felines, with a range of variations between. The attitude of the specimen does not deviate from their morphology so much as one might expect - social structures afford the same prospects to the very feline to the very elven. These physical variations appear to be based on the sequence of Nirn's moons, which the Khajiit seem to base a lot of ritual behaviour around. 

Sload are a species of amphibian, appearing somewhat like a slug but being in possession of a defined endoskeleton. They are however born with two sets of genitals, allowing any two specimens to mate. Once they are old enough to move around on land, these organs are absorbed and they turn their behaviour to predation and magic. They use magic primarily to resurrect dead matter, which they use to great efficiency.

Dreugh are a species of marine arthropod that existed before the Dawn era. They have a tough carapaced torso and head, and swim with powerful tentacles. They have occupied the oceans of Nirn since before the landmass appeared, and according to some scholars are in fact the ancestors of the Mer, Men and other living forms found on Nirn. These scholars claim that the Dreugh devoured the carcass of a dying god, and were transformed in a frenzy of aneuroplasmic plasticity into the dream-forms of the god that had perished. This meal was eschewed by the ancestors of the modern Dreugh who have retained their form.
Whatever the truth of the matter, the extant Dreugh have fairly complex life cycles. They are born in nests buried in the sand, and their polypous early stages adapt to marine life very quickly. They are voracious scavengers, but will predate when necessary.
When the time comes to breed, they absorb their tentacles into their body and grow a set of four powerful chitinous legs. This allows them to walk onto land, where they become a good deal more hostile than their semi-aggressive marine forms. Once they have mated and built their nests, they consume their legs and grow tentacles, returning to the sea once more.