Stuhn had been hunting by the shoreline with his sister, Kyne. She had caught a great many ur-elk, and wore them in a band over his shoulder. Stuhn had caught a great many great-crabs, and wore them as a belt round his mighty waist.

"What a great hunt it has been, sister mine," bellows Stuhn.
"Indeed brother, we shall feast well tonight with our fellow gods, and the rest we shall give as gift to Men."

They boomed in laughter and prepared to return home, but as they did the sky thickened and snow began to fell. Neither were stranger to the cold and the snow, being the strongest of the gods, but the snow was thick and they lost sight of one another until eventually, Stuhn not only could not find his sister, but nor the sea.

After a time, the snow parted and he found himself in a valley he did not recognise. The ice was high above and the sun shone in, and made the place seem like it was made of mirrors for a moment. He laughed as he saw himself reflected time and time again, until he saw a movement he knew was not his.

He wheeled around to see a great Elf-giant. He raised his great hammer, and prepared to do battle. 

"Hold you there, Elf-foe. I am Stuhn the Whale, and though I am known for my just nature, your kind have never shown mercy to mine."

The Elf-giant stepped forwards without fear or hesitation, and great Stuhn could see that it bore a mighty hammer not so unlike his own.

"You are well-met, Stuhn the Whale, god of Ransom. I am Stendarr, who offers the Chalice Freely Given. Your mercy is known to me, but that of your kind is not."

The Elf-giant was clad in shining armour, and his features were indeed most beautiful like others of his kind. But Stuhn had fought many of these gods before; he had done battle with Trinimac the Golden Lance, who had lain low his twin brother Tsun. He had clashed with Syrabane Witchfather, whose shadow was never his own. He had even held the line against Auriel the Archer, and his shield had been weighed down with a thousand of those arrows as he protected his comrades. And never had he seen a face that bore such stillness and sadness, not even on the mourning shield-thanes of dead Shor, and least of all among the other Elf-giants.

Stuhn was more cautious now. "How do you come to know me, Stendarr of the Chalice? I do not know your face, nor your name."

"We did battle once, in another time. We fought fiercely to protect our own, and that led us to clash with great hammer-blows."

Stuhn was given to pause. He did not remember the battle, but he had fought many. 

"It was you," Stendarr continued, "who bade your kin to take prisoners and not to beat the Snow-elves to death. It was you who granted our envoys passage into your lands so that they could treat with your leaders."

"I did, but it was not enough. Those prisoners were worked to death, and those envoys were slain on arrival."

"I know. But you inspired some justice in your subjects. Enough that I remembered when the wheel was turned."

"And what did you do in turn?"

"It is coming, Old Stuhn. Elf-armies grow in the far south, and the time will come when they rise against you all as one. And you will be ready for them with arms amassed, but I have already said to them; the Men were your brothers once, elf-children. When harm is done to another, the other remembers forever."

"I do not know if this is some trick, Stendarr the Merciful, but we both wield our hammers in our right hands. Let us then make peace with our left."

The two clasped their shield-arms in good faith, and as they did the mists rolled in again. Stuhn felt Stendarr's grip loosen until he was once again alone in the storm. Eventually, it cleared away and he saw the shape of his sister Kyne. He hollered her and made his way over.

"Sister!" He called, "What of your strange clouds followed you this day? I thought you the queen of the sky, and yet we got lost!" He spread out his arms wide, as a tawny owl landed in a nearby oak.

"I apologise, Brother mine. My mind wandered for a while, and my dreams took me elsewhere."

"As did mine. I met a strange fellow from a distant land."

"Aha? You must tell me all about him back at the hall. Go ahead, I will follow shortly."

As Stuhn went on ahead, Kyne looked up at the owl in the tree.

"I called the clouds as you bade, did you show him aught?"

"Oh yes," said the owl. "I showed him much."