[pagebreak]
You have come to a place of knowledge and understanding. 

Knowledge is the only true virtue. Without it, good intentions are worth nothing because they either fail or are born of luck. In light of this revelation, you are on the path of virtue now. You are already deserving of great things that are sequestered away by fools.

Know this: All things strive to have more of themself. Men strive to have more strength. Mer strive to have more mystery. Animals all will devour one another to be a larger version of themself.

You have come for knowledge, and this is because it is part of you already. You have chosen the part of yourself that you will nurture and grow. Here is not written the knowledge you seek, but the knowledge you need to acquire it. Let us begin.

Know this: Nothing in writing is absolute. The only exceptions are those Elder Scrolls whose moment has already been witnessed. Everything else is merely one set of eyes guiding a quill. It is true but it is not all the truth, and it is never an outright lie. Lies are an imposition on the Aurbis, and if it is imposed then it cannot be said to be wholly false.

Consider the wise mage who casts upon a piece of simple iron a spell that transforms it to gold. Has this alchymist, this alterator lied? The iron was never gold, and yet she made a claim that it was, and now it is. Many of the truths of the elves are stories they told again and again until they were true. 

Thus knowledge is made of truth and lies, with the one becoming the other over and over as two serpents locked in a ritual of hate or of love. 

Know this: Two texts may each tell a different truth. You may be compelled to believe that the real answer lies between the two. This is a convenient lie that you have told yourself. 

Know this: You have not two eyes, but three. The third cannot be blinded truly, except willingly by obtuse triangle-reasoning. To keep this eye fully open is to have the adjudicator between the quandaries of your other two eyes. 

To open this eye, be in total darkness and then close your other eyes.

And then, know this. You are far below a sea of memories, where all thoughts and flights of fancy have their everlasting afterlife. It is warm and it is cold, it is a homecoming and it is a maze. It is water and it is ink. It is writing yet to happen, it is here to sully the unspoilt vellum.

Open your eyes. You are in darkness. Close them again.

And then, know this. You can see through to the surface where never burned a sun. You are light shining up from total darkness. Unspoken words and unthought thoughts surround you. They are ink. You are ink. 

The words say nothing, and yet you will wish them to. You will scream them at the empty page. They have to become something. You have to make them mean something.

The unspoilt page is the void. The unspent ink is the aether.

Do not be the one to write - not yet. Simply know what is to be written. Will it. Command it. Command another to write, to commit to falsehood that which you wish to be true.

Open your eyes. You are no longer in darkness.

Know this: All knowledge is the interplay between ink and page. It is the shape of the ink on the page from which the pattern of existence is witnessed.



