Through the wisdom of Jhunal and the great twins Tsun and Stuhn, here do I write the wisdom of the crafting of iron.

Iron is a metal that hides in the earth. You can break open any number of rocks and never see any, even though you might be holding some as you do so. Certain rocks, when heated with a powerful forge, break down into a piece of iron. The material had been hidden by the rock - like water in a piece of turf, that cannot be seen, but when the water becomes vapour then the turf is dry. Iron is like that.

If you ever put a piece of cold iron to your tongue, you will notice that it tastes rather like blood. This is because iron indeed is blood. In the times before the world was made, great titans were slain by Shor who used their bodies to make the mountains and the plains. Over time their blood seeped into the rest of the world, and we can now use that as iron.

To find iron-bearing rock, look for rocks that glisten a dull shiny grey, but with a hint of red. Take to this rock a pick or mattock, and break off a piece about half the size of your head. Between two and five of these rocks should suffice to make an ingot. Rocks that metal comes from is called Ore.

Next you will need to smelt your ore. Smelting needs a special kiln just to get the heat right, and this is called a smelter. To make a smelter, you will need to fashion a great hollow clay dome with a small hole at the top. It should stand about your own height. It needs a window at the front to shovel the coal and the ore into, and channels cut into the base to let the iron come out into a vessel the shape of an ingot.

Here is where the mystery of Kyne comes in. Air must enter the smelter from the bottom, and this gift of the Earth Mother heats the fire even hotter - the same air that can extinguish a flame also makes it burn brighter in the right surround. Ignite your smelter, shovel in your coal and your ore, and the blood of old titans will trickle into the mould you have prepared.

The ingots should be cold before being worked. To work it, you will need a forge, which like the smelter is a special oven that is used for metal. But this has no dome, rather it should have a chimney if used indoors, or can be left open-topped if outdoors. Either should have good exposure to the air, because Kyne's gift will be needed once more in order to heat the iron.

Bellows are useful for this. Pump the bellows, and the air will turn the flame hotter than Shor's eyes. Using tongs, lower the ingots into the flame until they turn red like hot coals. Then, remove the ingot and place it on an anvil. Anvils are blocks used to strike iron against, and the best ones are themselves made of iron, but stone can be used too. 

Strike the iron until it is the shape you need. I will not explain what shapes are best for armours and for weapons, for that is another book's worth of learning. Once it is the right shape, it should be lowered with tongs into water. This cools the iron faster, and stops it from warping in the breeze.

Depending on what you intend to make, a different number of ingots will be needed. One for a seax, two or three for a bigger weapon, and four or five for a full cuirass.

Be sure to give thanks to the gods for their wisdom, and to the titans of old for their gift of blood.