The notion that our great race - nay, all great races - ultimately descend from the colossal formlessness we call the 'Ooze' should give pause to the mage practiced in the same classical educations as all others, since the obvious truth to be derived from this notion is that, were a piece of the Ooze separated from its primary mass, it would be possible to create new forms of life without the need for complicated and prolix methods of organic engineering. 

Even some of the Second Era's more intellectually diverse thinkers have, upon coming to the edge of this supposition, only attempted to engage with it in a marginal and comparably mundane fashion. I write of course of Mannimarco, whose obsession with the Black Art led him to simply attempt to call forth the obeisant dead from their tar-pits within the Ouze Basin, rather than bring himself to contemplate the very many more diverse possibilities.

A truth considered heretical - nay, outright blasphemous - to the Alinor elves is the grotesque yet ineluctable fact that our shared history within the Ooze is no less than the very foundation of the myth of Aldmeris. Elves, by our nature, wish to return to a golden city with forbidden celestial ramparts, guarded by griffons and topped by incandescent minarets and towers as high as the world itself, not to be undivided into the primordial plasticity of the first and last of all beings, the night-black Ooze from which all memory flows, and to which it will return.

The substance of the Ooze is still a matter of some speculation, with those brave mystics able to make physickal contact with it rarely returning in one piece, or indeed returning at all. The thick tar of the Ouze Basin is only a thin gradient of the truest form of the substance. What information we do have suggest it is so formless that it cannot even reflect Auri-El's light, and as such appears utterly black under any source of illumination, with perhaps only the dimmest ripple of reflection sufficient to remind the viewer that it is indeed a liquid.

At present, experiments await a sample of the Ooze that could be contained in a vessel that would resist its chaotic and abrasive qualities, allowing our magicians to apply the various formulae developed in the mean-time. These, it is hoped, will allow for the creation of new forms of life unbeknown to mortal science.