[pagebreak] <p align="center">


The Covetous Firmament
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">


Ravenous are the stars of the ink-sea, who offer the snare of distant light as a bargain for those parts of the soul not carefully secured to one's being.

In times bygone, the Ayleids offered much to the night sky in return for the solid blue glow of the welkynd stone, whose blue phosphorence offers a cold and heartless vision to any still walking their godless tombs.

The crimes of the Ayleids are innumerable - even to this day, few can pass the ruins of Vindasel and not imagine the wailing wheels for which it was ill-famed. But in order to reap the bounty of the firmament, the Elves paid a vile price indeed.

Some will deny it, and some will believe it, but it appears most clear to those of the black art now - the Ayleids tormented the souls of their slaves with the express intention of them offering their souls to the Divines. And with this harvest of Mundic souls, the Divines sent down to the Elves their welkynd and varla stones.

For the Divines, like the Daedra, are hungry for mortal works. The stars guide mortal souls in the way that Akatosh intends, for it is their hope to devour all life and to make themselves whole again, before they diminished themselves in order to create life. The stars have teeth - and this is not a euphemism. I have seen them. I have held them.

The decadent pride of the Ayleids, in the traditional way of things, led to their downfall. The bond of faith between the Nedes and their star-gods became too strong, and it became manifest in the form of the Paravant, the first true mortal vessel of divine power.

In the end, the souls of the Ayleids were devoured by the Daedra, and the souls of the Nedes were devoured by the Divines. The greatest necromancers of the age fell foul of their power-lust without ever thinking of the grander applications of the art.

Necromancy causes disgust because it goes against the beautiful falsehoods told to us by gods. The hungry stars tell us to abstain from the practice. We will not give you light, they say. 

However, we are warmed by darkness. We call them the black arts rightfully, because we eschew the need for the false gift of light.