[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

Historia Draconis

by Camanu of Sedor

Being a historie of the dragons of Skyrim

</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">

In the days after Shezarr taught us our tyrants' use of star-truthe and sun-logick, we did walk athwart the mountaynes at White Pass, to where the Men-of-Kreathe had their pallisayde against the Norther-men, whom some called Nordes. We did this because we knew that, in times of yore, they had brought doome to the elves of that land, and we wished to know the secret; for it was known that Shezarr had wandered forth, and our troubles would be upon us once more.

But the Nordes had not the legiouns to help us, for they were in war againste their own ryvals, the Dragons - and it was clere to us that theye did not revere Aka-tosh as did we; for they naymed him 'Aldouine', and sayd that he would devoure the worlde.
But I did state among the Nordes and here are the chrounickles I did mayke of the war between Norde and Dragon.

In olde tymes, the Dragons (sayeth the Nordes) had been kindlie masteres of Skyrim and forgotten Athmorland, and their priests had maintayned the bonds betwixt mortal and immortal well. But the dragons had become hungrie and demanded sackrifyces and obedieance, and would torment and devoure any who wouldst show dissent.

Chief amoung the Dragons was Aka-tosh himself, so it seem'd. I do not know why our kindlie father had turn'd his ill-gaze upon the Nordes, for mostlie he had acted through his seconde, the white dragon Parthounas. The Nordes explayn'd that Kynarthe, whom among the Nordes is the Queen of all gods, had shared with them the secret of their own masters, just as Shezarr had done with us.

And the secret was a terrible voyce, just as the dragons could - and the cloudes and wyndes and riveres could be shayped by their callinge. And some would breathe fyre and froste as could their enemye.

The dragons, I cayme to understande, had come from Athmorland alonge wyth the Nordes. They had been kinges of that lande, but great wars and awful stormes and froste had driven all southe to Skyrim. 
They were the children of Aka-tosh, it seem'd, and mostlie like hym in shaype though dyverse in syze. Some claymed to have seen Aka-tosh for themselves, and sayd that he was not golde but blacke. 

They do not wryte with the runes of the Nordes or with the scrypt of elves, but they turne their clawes to the rocke and earthe and scratch into it wordes of their own makinge. The most craftie of Nordes can tayke the power of theyse wordes and turne them into new shoutes, which theye call the 'Thoume'. 

I stayde in Skyrim until the war had endyde, and these are the thyngs that happenede, that I did see or were tolde to me:

In the Thirde yeare of the war:

The Worlde-Eater (for so theye called hym) did breathe flesh back onto the bones of a fallen wyrme at Ahroldan.

A Norde clevere-man did use a stolen machyne of the Dwarfs of Raldbthar, and it was mayde like a heavie war-bow, to shoot a dragon out of the fair skye into the wateres of Layke Honrick.

In the Fourthe yeare of the war:

Three great wyrmes did attacke the citie of Wyndhelme, but were shouted downe by the Tongues (for so theye calle theyre voyce-weylders), with only one wyrme survyvinge.

Parthounas did lende his voyce no longer to dragon but to the Nordes, and it was not clere to me whye the wyrme had rebell'd but he and a few otheres had, and some of the priests of Kynarthe knew whye.

In the Seventhe yeare of the war:

Aftere gettinge worde from home, I was asked to bringe to the Nordes some priestes of the Celestial Sigil, who had anciente wysdom with whiche to share. Theye did not reveal to me the secret, but theye did give to Feldere the Olde a thinge they tolde me was a weapoun. 

In the Laste-but-one yeare of the war:

The priest Morokaye, who serv'd the dragons welle, was seal'd belowe the citie of Bromunare by the priests of Kynarada, for he coulde onlie be lain lowe by a dragon and not by mortalles.

The newes came downe from the grayte mountain, High Rothgaur, that Aldouine had been slayne. Aftre this, the war was overe withyn a yeare.

Though they hadde not gyven us weapounes againste the elves at home, theye did agree as one that, shoulde Shezarr ever showe us favoure againe, they woulde joine battle with us and help us ridde the lande of our foe. And thatte concludes the chronickles of the Dragons. 

