<font face="$HandwrittenFont">

Middle Year 12th:

Sigdis is right; Father is misusing that amulet. While he was out hunting with Mikrul and his hounds, I stole into his room to turn it over in my hand. Whalebone, a solid piece, weft-formed with . It will bring to one the strength of Stuhn, the cunning of Jhunal and the breath of Kyne. It could be riven into three, I saw, and grant each one of me and my brethren the power of one of those great totems.

Middle Year 15th:

I brewed a draught of nightshade. Sigdis tipped his arrow in it, and shot Father in the dark. Mikrul waited by his bedside and brought his sword down on him when he gasped. He had been a good man in early life, but his wisdom left him long ere now. I took the amulet from his throat and broke it along the weft-lines. All three of us now own a piece. What great things we could achieve by working together! We will bring peace to Skyrim at last.

Last Seed 9th:

Sulenstead and Hylgaunt burned this week. They did not offer tribute, and sent warriors against us. How can Skyrim know peace if it will not accept our rule? We would be just and kind rulers! How dare they challenge us!

Last Seed 28th: 

I have not seen my brothers in days. The King has sent his Shield-Thanes and Banner-Carls after us, and also his Clever-Man, Geirmund. The King is a fool; I must deal with him once I have dispatched his retainers.

Hearthfire 3rd:

I could not fight then all at once; they are well trained and battle-seasoned. I had to avoid Alftand, because the Dwarves are angry at me almost as much as the King's men. They have cornered me at Saarthal - I must hide within.

Hearthfire 4th:

I made flight from the Banner-Carls in Saarthal, and thought I had come to a dead end - but my staff is made from the clever art, and I was able to open a passage that looked like a cave wall. I hid within, but Geirmund came for me. He calmed the legions of Orkey's dead within, such that my plan to overwhelm him with Draugr failed. At last, he backed me into a room with no exits - but something in his face changed. He would not enter that room. Rather he dropped a writ of sealing at my feet, and sealed the door in my face. I was too wounded to reach him to stop him - I suspect I may have died not long afterwards. 

Hearthfire 5th: 

A day must surely have passed by now. I am alone in this room, and I cannot make egress - my clever craft will not open the door no matter what I try. I have been defeated. I was a fool to hide in Saarthal! This place has been shunned since the time of Ysgramor.

Hearthfire:

I no longer know what day it is. Kyne's blue sky does not shine to these depths. I am alone. But my wounds seem to be healing. I am not hungry, which is well because I have eaten my last food. I thirst not. I fear the worst - that the Atmorans of old built these tombs that they might turn the living into the dead in time. Shall I become as the Draugr ere long?

There is no reason to guess dates now. I think a year has passed since I was sealed away. Much of the time I sleep, and meditate on the room I am in. There is something strange about it. A plinth lies at one end - it looks like a jade basin, with strange runes on it that I cannot read. They are not the ancient carved runes of ther Atmorans found on their great word walls, nor the runes devised by Ysgramor. No, these are the ancient runes of Hyrma-Mora, perhaps - and I have been trying, in my spare time (which is, of course, all of the time that I am not sleeping) to coax from them their secrets. So far, nothing.

Three years have passed, I think.

I am aware that there is a presence in this room. It feels like I am being watched, but I cannot say what by. I cannot hide from this feeling, but I also feel beneath the interest of the watcher. 

Many years have passed. I cannot say if it is tens or hundreds.

There is a presence in this room. It is a shadow, and I cannot see it. Not yet. It is behind the air. It is above the jade plinth - but where? To whom or what does this spectre belong? Perhaps it is of Hyrma-Mora, the Dark Hare of the Woods with a Thousand Eyes? Perhaps it is the watchful glare of Stuhn, ensuring that Geirmund can have me watched even in death? Am I dead? I am surely no longer alive. I am thin and wasten, though my mind is active and I can still work my clever craft.

Many years pass.

Much has happened in the outside world. I learn of it in my dreams. The golden elves of the east have turned to ash, and Shor awoke for just a moment. The Dwarves are all gone now - this is a good thing. I still cannot see the spectre in the room, but sometimes I dream of that as well. I see the world far from above in those ones.

Many years pass.

A ruler of men has arisen in Cyrod, at Pale Pass. Men from the East invaded this land, but did not come to Saarthal it seems. This is what I dreamed. I know that it is real - I cannot say how.

I was able to see the thing in the room with me - I conjured it from behind its hiding place in the air. It is round and green, an orb of the same shape as the bowl-plinth below it. It too is marked with strange runes. It feels like I have not revealed something that was hidden, but rather I have made something too great to be seen into something that can.

Such times as now I do dream when I am in the presence of the orb, which is always. I think that perhaps it is the room with the orb that is the dream, and the rest of the time I am awake, seeing things I had forgotten. I cannot describe these things, but I have revelations. It was a mistake to unbind that amulet all those years ago - what was powerful as a whole was wretched split into three. But that which is whole will forever be the hunger for that which does not have it. Orkey's dread famishment for the living.

Another man rules Cyrod now. He has the soul of a dragon but he has no heart. He has three hearts and none. An amulet, a green stone and the very heart of the world itself. 

A woman is before me - or a man? A god, one who rules the ash-devils of the East. She gestures to me with open palm, her other hand concealing a sword behind her. She laughs as I kill my father. She offers me nothing but words - May His Blindness Free You.

I am in a time outside time. I spend forever dreaming. I am here and I am not. I rest, I sleep, I dream. I no longer search for truth because I know the truth and it has undone me. I sleep and I dream. But I am dead and I cannot die, and thus I cannot truly sleep. I wish to die. I wish to live forever.

</font>