[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Atmoran Religious Iconography in Merethic Skyrim Tomb Structures and Settlements



by Professor Myrtle Woadely


University of Gwilym Press
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
The Merethic tombs and settlements of Skyrim all exhibit, with exceedingly little variation or difference, certain motifs and symbols that have come to be associated with the orthodox and fairly unerring religious beliefs common to the period. These motifs are generally found as bas-reliefs on tomb walls, though variations on the themes seen within are found on columns and sigils of numerous types all throughout these subterrane structures.

The most common of these animalistic motifs is the Dragon, which remains a perplexing matter for the historian and the archaeologist since the earliest manifestations of Akatosh among the forebears of the Nords was not, according to the literature available in the many sagas on the matter, a god particularly revered among those people so much as feared. Nevertheless, draconic symbology is frequent across most of the discovered tombs in Skyrim, leading several prominent scholars to suggest that Alduin, the 'World Eater' of Nordic myth, may have had more of a prominent religious role among the Atmoran ancestors of the early Nords than has hitherto been observed.

The Fox and the Wolf are frequently found in tombs. It can be quite difficult to distinguish one from the other, since the creatures have similar morphological traits in the natural world as well as the iconographic. This is more of a problem where the reliefs and carvings have been exposed to the elements, eroding much of the shape of the artistry until only the faint outline remains. In these cases, it remains up to the scholar to use surrounding context as well as the historical. The Fox is something of a trickster deity, constantly seen battling the tyranny of the Dragon.

The Bear and the Whale are commonly found together, and their association and placement has led scholars to argue that these are guardian spirits, placed to protect the Atmorans from harm in battle but also from harm that might have befallen their families while they were away at war.

The Moth symbol is found on friezes and pedestals, and is among the rarer symbols found in Atmoran ruins. The reverence of the Moth appears to be associated with sericulture and the wearing of silk, though there are very few remaining centres of silk production remaining in the archaeological record. Friezes showing the moth often show swarms of them surrounding a beautiful woman, leading to theories of 'Moth Priestesses' who soothed the Atmorans with songs and poetry.

The Serpent is a common symbol across Tamriel, except in Morrowind. Snakes are often associated with time, both as the circular snake eating itself and the recurring shedding and laying metaphor common in Elven, Yokudan and Argonian literature. In  Atmoran times, the Serpent was the symbol of Orkey, the god of death who shares certain characteristics with Arkay. Unlike the circular iconography of Arkay, however, the Orkey-Serpent is rarely coiled to eat itself.

The Owl iconography depicts this old Atmoran god totem of runes, who shows up less and less as the Merethic era progresses. It is believed based on this that the reverence of this totem became less and less popular over time, though the reasons for this remain uncertain.

The Hawk is probably the most popular symbol after the Dragon. It is also, in the modern day, the symbol of Kyne, who since the death of Shor (and, if it existed the fall of the Dragon Cult) has been revered by Skyrim's residents as the most prominent deity. Many symbols of Kyne appear, on examination, to have been superimposed over draconic statues, lending some credence to the notion that there was indeed a 'Dragon Cult' in previous times.