Know this one as Arkan the Scribe, or as Ak'an the Rogue. He was one before he was the other, because the roads in and out of Elsweyr always turn back in the end. He recorded this scroll of the great Baan Dar in the forty-fourth year of the Second Era, and honours you with it. 

In the far off land of Morrowind, on the isle of Var'Fell the Living-City, there was a god-prince called V'vehk. With his brother S'ethar and sister Ayem-ri, he ruled the land as both god and as king. To communicate his will and his wisdom to the Dark Elves, he sat in his great palace and endeavoured to write thirty-seven sermons, each a meditation on one of the aspects of mastery he claimed to have.

"These sermons," he boasted to himself, "will allow me to master the gate of heaven itself - I will become not just a god of Var'Fell or of Morrowind, nor even of Tamriel or even of just Nirn itself, nor even of all the vicinities of Mundus. I would be God and Prince of a new dream, far from the ills of the wheel of fate, and I will do this because I know of Royalty and Love."

But Azurah, the Queen of Dawn and Dusk, was troubled by his words because though the god-prince knew love, he had not learned how to act without its need, nor with the restraint to refrain from taking what was loved. And so she sent a whisper into the sky at dusk, at her most sacred and hushed hour, and it was heard by a S'ethar, brother of V'vehk, who ignored it. Thus Azurah whispered instead to the daughter of S'ethar, who fled into the night sky as soon as she heard it.

Morning rose, and Baan Dar was asleep, as he often was during the day. He was also in a wheelbarrow, which, if you do not know, can be quite a comfortable place to sleep when one lacks for a bed. Especially when it is a sunny day, as it was, and he purred loudly to himself in the after-haze of the previous night's sugaring.

Opening one bleary eye, the thief looked down the busy streets of Senchal to the crowds of brigands, scoundrels, dockworkers and those looking to buy the illicit wares of the city at the end of the world. Through the throng, he spotted a dark grey Khajiit woman approach him.

"If you are here to claim debt from Baan Dar, he has no interest to-day," muttered the bandit-god defiantly as a mostly-empty bottle of wine slipped from his fingers. "Approach this one when he is not enjoying the sun."

The grey-furred Khajiit shook her head, and the bandit noticed that one of her eyes was of a perfect, gleaming sapphire blue. He didn't know who she was, but he knew she wasn't going to be an ordinary Renriij.

"This one is called Namahli, and I have sought you, the very Baan Dar, because I need you to steal a book from my uncle."

"Oh, Baan Dar listens, but make this one good because he has heard many similar pleas before."

"This one's uncle is V'vehk, god-prince of Var'Fell. He has written thirty-six volumes, but the thirty-seventh is the problem. It's a very bad re-telling of a story that has been told countless times."

"You want Baan Dar to thieve a manuscript because it's trite and derivative?"

"Yes, in essence. So derivative that in the source material, we've already had this conversation."

"Fweah? Is it so? You have Baan Dar's curiosity. Where can he find this imitative work?"

"Imitative? This one would have said conventional." Namahli paused as if to allow for a laugh to follow, but if there was a joke there, Baan Dar didn't get it. "Anyway, here's the rub; it hasn't been written yet."

---------

To steal a book from a god is no easy task, thought Baan Dar to himself. Even if he himself was a god, V'vehk was known to be a troublesome opponent. Even Alkosh himself had thought twice before swallowing Morrowind, after all. But this book had yet to exist - therefore he had but two opportunities to steal it. He could steal it from the future, or he could steal it from the god-prince's mind.

Having no idea how to perform the former feat, he opted to do the latter. Baan Dar was a clever little god, and knew how to sneak into someone's thoughts through their dreams. He had smuggled himself into Morrowind disguised as an enslaved Suthay-Raht, wearing tough bracers of iron that would serve as armour but also mimic the manacles that slaves would wear in that land.

Pretending to toil in fields above which great balloon-like jellyfish roamed, he overheard the Dunmer land-owners talking about a procession in the city of V'vehk in which the god-prince was to attend. And so he followed his 'owners' dutifully through lands of fallen volcanic ash and through reeking swamp, harried by flying crow-lizards and bug-hounds all the way, til they arrived at V'vehk, the god prince's city.

The city, he learned, was built into a bay on great stepped pyramids, each a smaller city in itself. He thought about all the other great valuables he would steal from the wealthy Dunmer of the Rej'raan and Laahlu clans. But now he had work to do - he waited at a bridge overlooking where the parade was to pass, until the time when the festivities began. 

The Dunmer were certainly punctual - at the time stated, the fireworks began and a procession of gold-armoured elves trooped below, followed by dancing reptile-mounts and whirling, dancing athletes in armour of chitin and glass, each brandishing a sword. Baan Dar took the time to enjoy this spectacle until his prey approached - a colossal bug-hound, being ridden by an equally colossal elf - far larger than any man or mer could possibly be - his face, his whole body split between gold and ash-grey. 

It was a trick, Baan Dar thought - or was it? He remembered that V'vehk was a god and being able to change his size might not be so much of a hindrance to him as to others. But his size would make no difference - he thought back to the words he had learned from his father.

"The easiest way into someone's dreams, young Bandit, is to occupy a small but palpable part of their awareness. That leaves the door wide open."

As the giant elf rode below, the thief-god lit his pipe, just enough to illuminate his face. He blew a ring of smoke towards V'vehk, just enough to draw the attention of the god-prince for a fraction of a second, before the parade moved on. 

Good, he thought. That's the easy bit done. Now for the real fun.

---------

Having found a place to rest, Baan Dar waited to be dreamt.

It was easy enough to know when it happened, because he wasn't in a hammock on a small swampy islet anymore. He was in a place of great spinning wheels and terrible clamour.

Around him wandered thousands of others, most of them Dark Elves. He supposed that these were other half-glimpsed or dimly remembered figures that the god-prince was idly dreaming. 

V'vehk was not hard to see - it seemed that one could not stand anywhere and be unable to look upon the bald grey-and-gold god. He was enormous, even more so than he had been in the procession, and seemed intent on keeping great wheels turning. Some were spoked wheels, others toothed cogs, some almost didn't seem like wheels at all but that they turned as such. Beyond the wheels was a circling cloud around everything, that seemed to be an effort to keep something from entering this dream.

Not knowing where else to start, he found the nearest tavern - a thing for which he had quite the knack. 'The Weaver's Arms' advertised itself as a family-run business, and he had good experiences with those. The Dunmer woman behind the bar gave him a curt nod as he walked in.

"Baan Dar. It's been a while. How's my favourite nephew?"

"Mafala! This one should have noticed your many limbs when he came in. Khajiit is well, but he is on business yes."

"Sister told me all about it. You're going to take the Thirty-Seventh Scroll from V'vehk, though he has yet to write it."

"Aunt Mafala knows of this? How is it she has not taken the scroll?"

"V'vehk is my child, you see. He is your cousin. He knows where I am, and I cannot take from him the scroll. That is why Namahli was sent to bring you."

"Where can Baan Dar find the thirty-seventh scroll?"

"First you must understand why he cannot write it. If he does, it will be the same old  story that we remember from the House of We. Do you remember? All that bloodshed? The world that he would create in his book would be no different to that, and we'd all be in the story again. He thinks he is to write another story this time, one of love and change, but all great thieves seek to take what they love. It has been this way time and time again. No, to steal the thirty-seventh scroll, you must steal from him theft itself."

"Steal thievery so he does not become the thief?"

"Just so, Baan Dar. Thievery is your purview, and it must not be V'vehk's."

---------

Carefully tip-toeing into V'vehk's enormous ear, Baan Dar walked through the libraries of the mind. It wasn't too long, of course, until V'vehk - normal-sized this time - came face to face with the thief god.

"OUT GET, THIEF CAT! NO ROOM IN GOD-DREAM FOR BITER! OUT-GET!"

"So, V'vehk! God-prince of the Dunmer, know this - you let me in here tonight!"

"BRIDGE SIT CAT THIEF GET IN, WE SEE, BUT GET OUT NOW, OR SUFFER GOLDEN COCK SPEAR." At this threat, V'vehk brandished a chitin spear.

"Ho! Baan Dar is not afraid of it, Prince V'vehk. You think he cannot know a story from another?"

"BRIDGE BITER CAT GET GOLDEN COCK SPEAR, THEN! HOW ABOUT THAT!" roared V'vehk, and hurled the Muatra at Baan Dar.

Baan Dar just dodged it. Of all the trickeries he knew V'vehk to possess, this was the one he had prepared for the most.

"Baan Dar is not a simple bridge-cat, nor a simple thief. He is the son of the greatest rogue of the last age, and of all other thieves going back to Fadomai himself. He knows a simple lie when it is told - you never bit the cock of Molagh, it is a tale you told yourself and then to others, and your own soggy cock is just that. It only became true because it was believed by all. But Baan Dar's lineage is as old as lying itself. To this one, it can only be a spear."

"OUT GET, BITER CAT! WHAT WANTS IT FROM THE MIND PALACE OF VEHK?"

Baan Dar, at that moment, grabbed for the book he had at that moment noticed. It was empty, all but for the header "Thirty-Seven".

"STOP THIEF! THAT IS LOVE AND IT IS NEXT!"

"This? This isn't love. Bandit taking it isn't, either. Do you see now?"

V'vehk lunged for Baan Dar, who had to leap out of the way while clutching the book. He made a dash for the door, but it vanished as V'vehk began to re-assert control from the Mind Palace. The Bandit dashed down corridors of books, which flew out at him, tripping him and forcing him to double back. Presently he found Muatra-spear stuck in the wall, and with his free hand he took it, still clutching the book with the other.

"CORNERED BITER CAT. IT WILL BE RETURNED AND THEN I WILL FORGET YOU TO DEATH."

Baan Dar understood the riddle now. "Let Baan Dar show you, V'vehk, how to treat that which you love."

And with that he spun the blade of Muatra, slicing V'vehk's hands from the ends of his arms. The elf-god bellowed in pain, and Baan Dar had to run. He leapt out of the opening ear into the wider dream once more, where he could see that the larger V'vehk was having trouble keeping the wheels spinning all of a sudden. He leapt across the spokes and wheels, through whirling realms of spirit and creatia until he slipped into blackness and the depths of sleep.

---------

Baan Dar awoke on a small islet in the bay of V'vehk. He'd fallen out of his hammock onto his face, and the morning sun was just waking him up as it had done so in Senchal just scant days before.

Namahli was there, and she was holding the book that he had, apparently, managed to smuggle from the god-prince's dream. 

"It is just as I remembered it will be," she sighed cryptically as she read it. "But perhaps that memory will yet serve V'vehk well. I will return this to him in time, when he has had time to dwell on the lesson you taught him about love. For one cannot steal without hands, Baan Dar. You are most wise, and we have been fortunate that we were able to place our trust in one so tricksy."

Namahli blinked, and she took from her second eye a perfect sapphire to match the one in her first. "Payment for your service, Bandit god."

And then she leapt far into the sky that she called her home. The Bandit held the azure gemstone to the light of the rising sun to look within, and he remembered.