The tale from before the sundering has been shaped by many hands into many shapes, but the core remains the same. In ancient times - or so the tale goes - Lorkhan persuaded the gods to make the world upon which we toil.

After the blood-feud over this act of sacrifice was won by the armies of Trinimac, Lorkhan was sentenced and executed, his heart forming a great blood-arc over the land to form a great Red Mountain in undiscovered land.

Lorkhan was not a man, of course, and had no real heart as we do. There was an essence of himself that filled that purpose - that indivisible part of his being. His divine spark. His hunger.

Even the Redguards, who came to Tamriel from another time and place, know this tale - Satakal struck Sep on the head so that his hunger came out. But the hunger was not a heart. It was smaller, and more intriguing than that.

The Ayleids fabricated their own story - that the hunger they found was a part of Lorkhan's blood that had landed in one of their wells, preventing it from crystallising to dark purple ebony. And yet they knew it for what it truly was - the Hunger of Lorkhan. They called it the Chim-El Adabal, the royal godstone. Of course, now we all call it the Amulet of Kings.

But the tale of Red Mountain was inescapable to the inchoate Ehlnofey, and so their descendants came to truly believe that there was an actual heart under Red Mountain. And the Deep-Counselled Folk in their halls of brass and iron pondered among themselves, and so delved into the mountain.

There was no heart there - there never had been. The divine spark did not take that form. There was ebony aplenty, though - those who believed it to be his blood clearly took some vindication from this. But of the heart they found nothing. But they had something else. They had the magic from before first magic, which is to say they could change the story by singing it.

So well-told was the tale of the heart under Red Mountain, that they were able to sing it into reality. Lorkhan finally had a heart of his own, though his body was devoured by gods and torn to shreds and flung to all the corners of Nirn. The god who was robbed of his divine spark now had two. 

Thousands of years passed, and Tiber Septim made peace with the Dark Elves. Using the brass-wisdom stolen from the carcass of the Dwarven titan, they made the Mantella. A facsimile of the Heart strong enough to do its work. The god who was robbed of his divine spark now had three.

The god-poet of the Dark Elves said this:

"The heart of the second serpent holds the secret triangular gate."

The gate has been made. Three pylons of red promise.

For the Lord of Myth to be reborn, all three must be sundered. The gate will be open, and the new man shall emerge.