[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

The Eagle Rock

by Taruntheniel of Illemerine

</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Falandir was a shining paladin of now-lost Aldmeris; his blade was a perfect mirror of the sky, and his shield was the very walls of fondly-remembered Ehlnofey. His was the duty of protecting the good folk of the land from all troubles, and this he would perform with solemn avow.

One fair day, the children of Ayabathar in the wide tundra called out to him. "Falandir! There is a terrible old rock in the plains!"

"A rock? What terrible harm could come to the land from a rock?" did the bold knight reply.

"It is the shape of Auri-El himself, but it is most unkind! It shrieks in the voice of a troll-maiden!"

"Worry you not, children of Ayabathar; I will bring the howls of this rock to an end, and the plains shall once again gleam in the light of the Ancestors."

And so Falandir rode out into the plains below Irandayyar, and it was a day before he came to a place he looked up at the great mountain, the highest peak in all of Dawn's Beauty.

And there on the plains between him and the mountain there was indeed a great rock, as if a huge boulder, so shaped as a mockery of the eagle-form of the Ancestors.

Undaunted, the paladin ventured closer. When he reached its foot, it bellowed out to him in a terrible voice:

"Elf-knight! You have found your way to the old sanctuary of time-ending breath! Answer me this riddle!"

"Ask your riddle, Eagle-Stone, for I am made glorious with the wisdom of Xarxes as I am by the strength of Trinimac."

"You speak the name of the raggard who widowed me, Elf-knight. Nevertheless, answer me this; what is winged as an eagle, but fanged as a snake?"

Falandir, who was used to the trickery of such riddles, thought for a moment. "Time flows on great wings, O riddler, and so does it come to bite us all in the end. Thus there is my answer; Time."

There came a throaty chuckling from the rock. 
"O Elf-knight, how right you are. More right than you shall ever know!"

And then the statue shrieked horribly, and down came the rains from the great tall mountain. And the plains were awash, with great lightning shattering the sky, lances of heaven drawing closer to the paladin who drew away in fear.

And against the now-darkened sky he saw what appeared for a moment like a great bat or an eagle, but it was scaled all over like a snake. He drew his sword and backed away, but tripped over and fell backwards. The rains came down harder and harder until the world had drowned and been forgotten.

It was after some time when Falandir awoke. He was the other side of the plains, and did not know how he had come to be there. He returned to Ceyarindel to meet the children, and he gave them this warning.

"You must never return to the statue west of Ayabathar, for that is no likeness of Auri-El, but the very effigy of Lorkhan's grieving widow, to whom we give no name. To name her is to call her from the ruins of Altamor to unleash her vengeance from the skies." And so it was that the great eagle-statue was shunned forever. 

