It comes to me in red dreaming sometimes that it - being the Heart, of course - is altogether too small for the world around it. Only in morning does the reminder come that it has shrunk, and for better a way of considering it, must grow. The wound from which it was struck is smaller than the Chamber but larger than the aperture. When it is the right size, I may have misjudged the timing.

One puzzle to which I cannot readily provide the answer is this; was it always here? Truly it was not always a living, beating organ such as beats in the hearts of every mortal. The Dwemer, with their inverse god-fabling, were able to manifest the organ at the centre of the chamber. So what, I ask myself, sat there before?

To this question, the first answer I usually provide to myself is that the spark of the Scarab fell here after his war against the Dragon, but was of a shape and dimension wholly too complex to look upon, even with multi-faceted eyes. The Dwemer, with their corner-cutting torches and globes of disrepair, collapsed the metaphorical heart into something they could mould with their hands.

The second answer with which I humour myself is that the Heart was never here, but the legend that it had landed here was so widely accepted that the Dwemer were able to carve that poetry into truth. If that is verily the case, then their notions of godhood outstretch the greatest of mortal religions. EHLN ANTIA MORA, the base defies the wise - until it becomes it.

At night, as I sing my beautiful children to sleep, I stand before the Heart of the Scarab. I think to myself that it is very small. A tumult has occurred in the West, and my old ally and foe has joined me here once more. He is different now, this old Wulfharth. I almost imagined I would be happy to see him, but there is nothing there. My love is for my children, and they alone. 

Every day my children enter the Chamber with flesh they have taken from themselves. Onto the myth-bones they will build themselves, and the last act will be for the Heart to be buried in grey flesh.

Akulakhan is the symbol of a tale that refuses to be finished. The Heart is the spark of that, the first moment of truth within a lie told in ages long-forgotten. There never was Akulakhan, and now there will always be Akulakhan. This is the fate that I, a god, have ordained for my people.