<p align="center">
[pagebreak]

The Catalogue of Forbidden Tomes

Volume One: The Animators of the Dead
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">

Arkay the Enemy
by 'KW', believed to be the King of Worms, Mannimarco. A piece of unusual necromancer propaganda that was intended to rile up conjurors in order to have them join forces with liches and vampires, and to infiltrate bodies of state. Contains no instruction on the dark arts but is nevertheless considered very dangerous.

Benevolent Necromancy, it Exists
A tract by Yisarrah of the Undaunted, a second era Redguard invoker. It highlights the more tame and legal aspects of necromancy. Considered suspicious but not inherently dangerous.

Corpse Preparation
A three-volume set of books highlighting in extreme detail the process of creating lower orders of re-animated cadavers, both skeletal and mostly-fleshed. Considered a common primer among those of the black art, it is thus considered highly dangerous. 

Kontrau so Tribunalo
A rare sloadic tome by the early second era necromancer K'Thassvi. Sloadic texts are quite rare in general as they are not normally concerned with the written word. It is a rebuke of the Tribunal Temple's admonitions against necromancy, and translates from the Sload tongue as 'Against the Tribunal'. 

Mananaut's Guide to the Soul Cairn
A rather perplexing guide supposedly written by the dubious organisation known as the Royal Imperial Mananauts. Nevertheless the book does contain concerningly accurate information as to how to enter a place called the Soul Cairn of which little is yet known.

Mysteries of the Worm
The only known copy of this book, true title 'De Vermis Mysteriis' as it appears in Cyro-Ehlnofex, is believed to be an artefact-level threat. It is the most complete and well-documented book on the process of re-animating the dead that is known. It is difficult to get hold of, in fact none other than a necromancer is ever believed to have owned it. It is not certain how it comes to pass from one to another. It is considered highest priority.

On Re-animating Skeletons
A book by an unknown author. Provides clear instructions on how to quickly re-animate an entirely skeletal body. High priority.

Practical Necromancy
Contains a great many specifics on the ritual nature of re-animation magicks. The author is unknown, and it is believed - although not confirmed - to be older than Mannimarco. Highest priority.

Sago dahk so Larvauw Rego
A poorly understood Sloadic necromancy text. It loosely translated to 'Wisdom of the Worm King'. Slightly lesser than normal concern because Sloadic is a language known to very few.

A World of Corpses
A rather bafflingly ill-tempered treatise on the struggles of necromancy by Mannimarco himself. Contains very few instructions on the practice, considered moderate priority. 
