Consider how Lord Dagon, the Enlightener, the Witness of Hope and the Old Breaking of the New Tower, came to pass from Lyg to Nirn - know that he vaulted athwart a rift too wide and too bleak to traverse. A new ageless moment of freedom! AE NU-MANTIA KARAN GUME KARAN AE CHIM!

Only with the Razor can the distance beyond distances be cut away. All things hewn by nature or wrought by mortals fall to the Razor. Sky, wind, light and dark are parted. Earth, soul and mind. Breath, distance, heritage and peace. All riven in exactness by the Razor. All bonds and chains are sundered at the touch of the Edge of True Freedom.

In the hands of the uninitiated, it is a mere dagger, though the edge keener than any blade wrought by mortal hands. Assassins immemorial have sunken the Razor into the backs of the rich, the poor, and one another. Rare is the armour that can abide the blade's kiss, even when it is wielded by a novice.

The true power of the blade lies in the wisdom of the inconceivable edge. If you should ever hold the weapon as I have, you will see that the hone of its edge is infinitely sharp - at no point can the balance between one side and the other be calculated. It hastens from thin to thinner until it is so fine that it cannot be seen at all - and one my wonder if the edge simply goes on forever, will all creation resting on one side or the other at any moment. A gradient of possibilities of being halved the closer one gets to the edge, until the moment has come, and the horizon is in twain.

Wielding the razor as a tool against the ordinary shape of things is a craft no simpler to master than any other. No great wrights and chymists were born overnight, nor did their knowledge come from ought but focus and practice. The Razor is not a tool to be placed in the hands of apprentices, for they will cause wounds they cannot comprehend from which flows a blood they will not recognise.

However it is with a modicum of learning, rather than too great or too little, that there arises the greatest danger. The horizon of the dagger is the distance from the visible edge that the true edge is effective. In a novitiate's hands, this is a hundredth of a tenth of an inch - still effective as a weapon, but little else. In the hands of a master, the horizon may take what shape and size they choose, though not without intense focus. In this manner it can reshape things inside oneself that cannot be perceived directly.

But for the student who has begun the path of ebony wisdom, the danger lies in the vagaries of that morphology. If they cannot control the shape of the blade, it will bury itself in their body, or their mind, their soul, their past, or their future. The hunger for power is Lord Dagon's lure and also his promise. For the one willing to devote themself to learning, the power will flow infinite.

The artefact that exists for Lord Dagon to place into the hands of mortals is only a fraction of the true blade, for that blade is his very being. And indeed the blade that Lord Dagon wields is itself only a mythic fragment of the Ender of Aeons. You will know it by the names it had before, the names of those it birthed, and the names of those it will become. Pankratosword. Vosh Rakh. Keening. Ancestroscythe. The Razor is the utmost tip.

Will the enlightened scholar shape themself into a god? Sever a birthright from its Prince? Remove the heart of a titan? Create new lineages from their own ancestries, cut the Scarab from the Dragon and recall the Dawn once more? All these things have been achieved with the Razor, and will be again. 

AE DAGON ALTADOON CE AKHAT E LKHAN.