[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Mortal Taxonomies

by Seeker T'uuhgi Hlaeer




Volume III: Evolutions of Man

</p>
<p align="left">

Men are those species of Ehlnofey who evolved to deal with the chaotic tumult of the Dawn Era. As such, they tend to have a good deal of physical resistance, though are less well-adapted to magical behaviour.

Nords are a species that developed from the semi-immortal inhabitants of Atmora. They are extremely cold-resistant, and are usually marked by pale colouration with light yellowish hair. They are much stronger than other species of men, though their behaviour can be somewhat erratic.

Nedes are a now-extinct clade consisting of various species of Men, all of which are now more or less integrated into the modern species of Cyrods. They were used by Ayleids as a servitor race, before overrunning them. 

Cyrods are the result of many Nedic subspecies interbreeding, and they vary somewhat in morphology and behaviour. They are the only species of Man to have developed a rudimentary hive-mind, though this behaviour is used only for the absorption of other colonies into their own. This bellicose hive-mind is called 'Talos' and can be applied to any of the soldier-specimens through a process of indoctrination.

Bretons are an admixture of Nordic, Nedic and Mer species that has resulted in a stable stock of magicka-capable Men. They are known for their flamboyant mating displays, garbing themselves in bright cloth and engaging in violent rituals intended both to attract mates and ward off hopeful usurpers.

Reguards are a dark-skinned species originating in the westernmost limits of Nirn. They are less well adapted to magical behaviour, though they have abilities quite discrete from other species of Men. They are able to move slightly out of phase with standard dracochronodometry, allowing them to travel to habitats out of reach for other species. Some specimens are able to formulate weaponry without the need to accrete them from mineral samples. Though they demonstrate little interest in conquering other colonies from other species, they are extremely skilled in defence, being equal in skill to the Nords.