[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

<b>The Winds of Change</b>

by Liesl Grey-Heart


</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
During the reign of Elgryr I took notice the various patterns of in the thoughts of behaviors of a troubled populace, and undertook a humble plan to comprehend and, in the end, affect them. Being of ordered mind, I began my taxonomy in the lower classes, which divide evenly into those who actively supported the Jarl, in part or in all; those who were opposed to his profligacy but felt they had too much to lose by toppling him, and the openly recalcitrant who were outspoken in their criticism of their ruler.

The first group consisted of its own sub-populations; traditionalists and the devout who believed in archaic ideas of goodly rulers, and that the fates would always act in the interest of those who obeyed their king; former soldiers, who had known the Jarl in his campaigning days; lastly, those who deluded themselves with the notion that their support would eventually be heard by their Jarl and repayed with kindness.

The second group was, more sublty I think, divided into those who feared the Jarl and his subordinates, and those who feared the loss of what little property or standing they had if they should openly show rebellion.

The third group, while various in their way, were nearly all those who had been driven to the brink of hunger or deprivation, or those bereaved who had lost loved ones in the purges. They were not a group I could affect in any way other than to swell their numbers - once this occurred, they would simply do the final tasks themselves.

Most of the city's poor lived in the Snow Quarter, and indeed they still do. It is the most densely populated part of Windhelm, sprawling down all the way to the dock-walls. Thus all three taxa of citizen lived in close proximity - this would be the ideal environment for my work.

My task was partly at the behest of my tutor, who would end up gifting me his valuable tome - the Oghma Infinium - in return for this service. But I could not deny that I was doing this for a good cause in which I had a vested interest. The aim was to overthrow the malign rule of Jarl Elgryr, but the method had to be revolution. And the method to the method, I decided, must be knowledge.

My tutor once said; All knowledge is true if it is secret, even if it is false. And if the secret is revealed without being spoken, it is thrice true. Thus, I decided, I would enlighten the starving masses to rebellion. I would call this movement 'The Winds of Change', as a private joke - at the expense of none - on the city's name.

To enact this change, I would need to cause the first two groups to fall into line with the first. The first, the royal supporters, would be the hardest to move, but any movement that did happen would be seismic. The second group would be easier to manouevre, but would fall in more slowly. Opposition and cruelty breed inimity in most, and so I devised a gambit; I would see to it that the Jarl's people would attack some of their own supporters in the lower classes. 

The desired result: To bring the most loyal subjects of Jarl Elgryr the Unminded to rebel.

The method: I would cause the Jarl's court wizard to attack some of the loyalists.

To accomplish this, I posed as a willing apprentice. First I made sure to kill his actual apprentice, who was a very lacklustre mage - certainly no loss to the greater study of the arcane. With the position now open, I made very good account of myself while obviously concealing the true extent of my ability.

The court mage was one arm of the Jarl's enforcement, the other being all his armed guards. A very capable mage himself - I knew I had to be careful not to come directly to blows with him, because much of his knowledge came from Meridia and Vaermina and Molag Bal. Of one or all of these Princes, or perhaps another, he would paint sigils in treated blood onto the doors of those households who opposed the Jarl. Come the rising of the sun, all within would be dead. 

I fed him some knowledge, entirely untrue, that a household of loyalists was, in secret, stoking the fires of revolt. Two nights later, the household was all dead. 

The result: I had hoped for more. I was expecting this to be a stronger wind than it was, but many of the loyalists made excuses for their Jarl, and others were cowed into more subservience yet. But it did mark a turning point in the affair: from that moment on, nobody believed that they were safe from the misrule of Elgryr.

Perhaps I had been too ambitious in aiming at the loyalists first. If I worked on the undecided, perhaps I would affect a more lasting change. I worked on the city guards next, convincing them to confiscate any luxuries - and I was clear that this could be anything really. I personally ensured that any letters arriving in the city came through my desk. Ah, reading them, how it became clear that love is a weapon and a tool. Letters begging loved ones for coin, letters that might as well have been laced in poison...
Regardless, I removed any that might have interrupted the second phase of my plan, which was to move the undecided locals to align with the revolutionaries.

This was much more effective. Soon, swathes of them had bolstered the ranks of the protestors. All I really had to do now was wait - after a few months, I was convinced that the combination of rising rhetoric and the depleting food stores would finish the job. There was just one obstacle, and it had to be removed at the right time.

I went into the Snow Quarter one night, and told the people that I had heard a rumour that the court mage had come to a grim reckoning. If they should hear of his death come the morning, they would know that there was nothing to stop them beating down the walls of Ysgramor's old palace and removing the unworthy Jarl, who had profaned the great founder's hall with his debauchery and his odes to Sanguine. The whispers began to spread. 

That night, I painted the same sigil onto his own door that he had painted onto the doors of others. Come the morning, he was in a state of death that I had never seen matched by another.

I was impressed by the way they organised themselves - because I had focused on causing injury to the already injured, I had strengthened their bonds to one another. They would not turn upon each other in battle, not for money or for false promises. I had managed to forge an army loyal to itself, and this was a barely-intended consequence.

The following bloodshed and eventual decapitation of Jarl Elgryr were of much less interest to me, but I absorbed the news with some satisfaction. I made my way to the place where my tutor would meet me, and there he was, his thousand eyes weeping ink onto the surroundings. 

He told me that I had done well, and congratulated me on my methods, and asked many questions on what I had learned. This was a final test of his to grade my understanding. 

"How did the masses finally come to overthrow their ruler?"
"Because it was that, or die."

"You could have slain the Jarl himself. Why not him, but he court mage?"
"The story of the Jarl's death had to be written by the rebels, and not by myself."

"What was the biggest understanding that you acquired?"
"That the peak of the loftiest mountain is always supported by its base. Not just for the Jarl, but in hierarchies of all kinds, including loyalty. When the base goes, the top goes. Remove any point from a triangle and you'll be lucky if you still have one line left."

"So it goes in all things. You have earned my Oghma Infinium, Grey-Heart. Choose your learning well."

And so that night I did drink in the knowledge of the Gardener of Men. In doing so it came to me that I had already read the story of the rebellion before it happened, in all the letters sent to Windhelm. In all the hopes and aspirations of the people, in all the remembrances of other great rebellions where great kings had been cast from their thrones. The story had been written before the ink had even touched the paper. I resolved from that moment on that I would always read every book twice - and since then I have always learned twice as much.