At the beginning of the world, there was a great battle between Shor and Kyne, and the evil gods Orkey and Alduin. Orkey slew Shor, and onto the land fell the bones of him and those who fell at his side in battle, such as great Tsun the Bear. Alduin stole Shor's heart and hid it far away in the mountains to the East.

The bones of the fallen gods became the world, and new life sprang up around them, as the Hawk-mother Kyne breathed her blessing onto the new world. As can happen with the hearts and bones of the gods, so can happen with the smaller things too. Consider the Briar-Hearts who pillage the ruins of the lost Dwarves in Markarth Side. They understand the power that comes from a torn-out heart. But they are not clever - they are fierce and cannot be reasoned with. Heart magic is dangerous, and it is a route to power for the untrustworthy. The Briar-Hearts learned this magick from the elf titans who fought alongside Alduin.

Bones, however, can also be of great use to the Cleverwoman. Just as Kyne breathed life onto the bones of the ancients, so will I teach you how to use your craft on the bones of the dead - be they beast or man.

First, know this - there are terrible kinds of Bone-craft associated with the Snake-god Orkey. These dark mystics will seek to rise the dead to life, or cause whole skeletons to walk as the man who wore them once did. Do not be lured by this dark craft, for it too is the magick of elves.

Wise old Kyne teaches us to be resourceful with our kills, and so use the bones we must. To shape them, use a scrimshaw knife - this will ensure the bone does not splinter. 

Crafty old Jhunal teaches us to be wise in the way of runes and numbers. To get the most out of a bone's power, the right runes must be carved onto it.

The bone of a forearm, left, can be used to divine a location. Animal fore-limbs can be used to the same effect. Make a pointer of bone, and lay it down - if the runes have been carved right, it will point towards the place you are looking for.

To know the former owner of an object and how to find them, take the bones of a wolf and grind them up with an uprooted deathbell. The tincture made from these will show you the way to an item's owner.

Correctly prepared, a bone worn around the neck will cure you of all diseases. Carve the bone with the likeness of Jhunal or Kyne, and keep it in cold running water for three days, or keep it in a leather purse made of horker skin, and it shall be a ward and a proof against illness. 

These ones I have written of do not even need knowledge of the cleverest craft to make - with the right instructions they can be made by all.

When one does have the craft, however, more becomes knowable. If one grinds a bone into a powder, it can be used to make powerful salves and potions.
Mixed with snowberries or the aethers of a fire golem, the potion will make you proof against fire - even magickal fire, or the breath of the ancient dragons.

Mixed with the aethers of an ice golem, or the wings of moths, the mixture will allow a cleverman to call forth powerful spirits. But he must be careful not to defile the remains of the dead in doing so. Speaking to the dead is a dangerous practice even for those well taught in such things - only the wisest should try to do it.

Bones can be used see into the future. Herma-mora tries to keep these secrets from the Nords out of jealousy, but with Jhunal's cunning these secrets can be taken from the demon of knowledge. Take knuckle-bones and mark one side of each with a rune - it is safest to use Nordic runes, but some Tongues have managed success if they are careful in the painting of Dragon runes.

Once these runes are painted, throw a handful - taken at random - into the air, and chant the old weary hymns of the North as you do so. Once the last bone has fallen and come to rest, read them out in the order you find them in. 

The most crafty can read the bones of Whales. To read the bones of a sea-whale, it is best to find one that has beached. Look for the crabs that feast upon it - mark upon them the runes of hearth, hunger and sight. Ten days later, return to the carcass. It should now be open enough to sit in the rib-cage. Meditate here for two days, eating only of the flesh of the whale, and you shall be shown the wisdom you seek.

To read a snow-whale, you must wait for the foxes and the crows to be done with what remains. Then, rub the inside of the ribcage with troll fat and honey. You must then light a fire within the ribcage, and sleep by it for a night. When you awaken, the answer to your question will be written in runes on the bones.

Sometimes you might find the bones of dragons. Dragons were the armies of the World-Eater, and their bones should be used with caution to avoid calling ill luck on your household. Only the most seasoned of Cleverfolk should attempt this craft.
They are very hard, usually too hard to cut, so to make a rune-tine with one will take much labour, and the keenest knowledge of the forge is required to get them hot enough to chisel. With a runestaff thus made, you can use it to gain knowledge of time itself, able to peer into the future or see something that happened many years ago. 