We build a roof of wood. The tree died yesterday.

We build a wall of stone. The rock died long ago.

The first house is made of the dead. Death is the builder. The builder is dead.

Wear skin, wear mail, wield bow, wield sword. Metal is dead blood. All we make, we make from death.

Build a fire from dead wood. The tree died in winter. The fire is alive but will die come morning. Dead leaves for the kindling, dead meat for the eating. Milk, honey and fruit are the only living food. 

Deep, deep. Into the new house. The house made of the dead. All that is dead can be built with. Bones into new bone, meat into new life. Meat for the eating.

The new house was made of only one thing, and that was the last house. Then the things were in it, the new things. Things that died and became things of new making. Make it from the dead. Leaving the dead does no good. What is buried get forgotten and what gets forgotten is of no use. Eat the dead. Build from the dead.

Wolves do it and spiders do it and insects do it and bears do it and everything does it. 

The first maggots in the dead god chewed a new house. We are in the new house. They chewed deep and they rotted a land in which to build more. Build from the dead, the living are not built from. They are built of the dead but are not dead.

There is a dead god and the maggots chewed into the inside. We are inside. The sky is dead eyes and the mountains are dead teeth. We are the new maggots, and we eat the land and we build the coccoons of new making. We dwell in death until we become the new thing. We hatch in the dead and our eggs are lain in it. We hatch from the dead. Life from death, life is made from death.

What comes from the chrysalis is new. It is not the maggots, for it can fly and it has colours that the dead god does not have and never saw when it was alive. It spreads its wings. It has feasted well and must now drink of honey and milk, for until it dies it must feast on the living. 

The next maggots will feast on it when it dies.