Umeek-Wa: To become a bandit, overthrow Staunch Citadel and turn it into a stronghold from which he will reign for the rest of his days. Will die due to complications arising from murder. 

Arniel Gane: Will solve the seventh conundrum of wightbrass only to discover, to his annoyance, the very thing he set out to find in the first place. 

Versidue-Shaie: <font face='$MageScriptFont'>WILL BECOME THE SWORD CAPTAIN VERSHU WHO WILL TAKE UPON HIMSELF THE MANTLE OF THE KNIGHT RENALD AND UPON ORDERS FROM A HOG HE WILL DIE ONCE MORE TO BECOME THE BEARER OF THE FALSE HEART AND WILL DIE TWICE MORE ONCE TO BECOME THE UNDERKING AND ONCE MORE TO BECOME THE NU MANTIA </font>

The Star-Knight: See <font face='$MageScriptFont'> SWORD CAPTAIN VERSHU</font>. Will go on to understand the importance of the number nine.

The Nerevarine: Upon finally incarnating as a stranger, will cast down the Tribunal, defeat the Sharmat Dagoth-Ur and engage Hircine in the Posting of the Hunt. Afterwards will go on to [HERMINIT]

Mannimarco: Upon <font face='$MageScriptFont'>ACTIVATING THE MANTELLA</font> for himself will go on to [NUMINIT] until the sundering of the veil at which point he shall appear once more in mortal guise.

Calvius Callius: Will die on the same farm he was born on.

Mirmulnir: Will return from exile only to die at the hands of his ancient enemy.

Sugar-Lips Habasi: Will make good her revenge on the Camonna Tong.

Marciana of Skingrad: Will trip over a cobblestone on Fredas 12th of Last Seed 4E 202 and give herself a bump on the head that lasts a week.

Morgiah of Firsthold: Will sacrifice her first in order to be the most loved queen of her land.

Broadach the Unbested: Will bring great bloodshed to the people of the Karth Valley, leaving many orphans and ruins in his wake.

Tarhiel of Old Ebonheart: Will escape the coming doom of the Oblivion Crisis by leaving early for Vvardenfell.

Remiel of Wayrest: Will take the life of a betrothed. Will be scratched by a cat.

Ancano: Will see the pattern that none have seen since creation.

Almalexia: Will have a blade rebuilt with full knowledge of its use.

Sellus Gravius: Will return to Cyrodiil to find his home in ruins.

Kagrenac: [NUMINIT]

Timwe: Will go on a picnic with a boy she likes and they will both have strawberries and they will watch the fish in the stream. In later life she will die in battle having destroyed many villages.

Adresi Llethan: Will be accused of necromancy, but will have her name cleared in time. Will go on to make the rivers of Silgrad Tower run clear.

Jiub: Will come to terms with the errors of his life, and become one of the saviour-saints of Morrowind. In later life he will be interrupted while trying to write.

The Silent One: Will unleash a terror that will forever bely their namesake.

Mankar Camoran: Will quarrel with the fates themselves over the heart of a dead knight.

Katria: Will take her quest to avenge plagiarism beyond the grave.

Nzarkh of Aleft: [NUMINIT]

Durag gro-Salkh: Will come from lowly beginnings to found the Fifth Orsinium, and slay the Lich-Queen Alvaronde.

The Last Dragonborn: Fated by the Great Doom to bring death to Harkon of the Volkihar and Alduin the World-Eater.

The Eagle of Shimmerene: Would be the last of her sisterhood to see the world upside-down.

Valkrys: Will perish due to the sword she borrowed.

The Aureate Serpent: Will turn the secrets of the dying to great advantage.

Vivec: <font face='$MageScriptFont'>WILL DIE AND WILL ASCEND AND WILL BE FORGOTTEN AND WILL BE REMEMBERED </font>

Delphine: Will remember ancient oath and ancient duty.

Septimus Signus: [NUMINIT]

Astrid: Will take a chance on a stranger and come to rue the cost of it.

Savos Aren: Shall come to make amends in his last moment.

Stargel: Will find the perfect outfit for the perfect day.

Derveni Sul: [NUMINIT]

Gothren: Will die exactly the way he expected to.

Lorick the Surly: His death will come sooner than he thought, but much later than others thought.

Korthalnederghalimxak: Will be de-numerated at the final siege against the Nil-Hist.

The First Dragonborn: Fated to realise the meaning of a surfeit of understanding.

Ardenius Ganemo: Will finish nine books out of ten.

Voryn Dagoth: After the first betrayal he will come to know supreme power, and after the second will lose it - but will achieve his wish.

Akhnzlft of Arkgnthand: [NUMINIT]

Mollimo of Cloudrest: Will outsource his duties admirably.

Ahzir of Taneth: Will conquer one town more than was necessary and will lose a kingdom.

Aldrick Weaver: Will lose all he worked for in life when Betony is besieged.

V'laxis: Will die at the hands of the All Flags Navy, but will bring low three ships.

Guinne Leylit: Will expand her farm's acreage by three times with her careful counting.

Movarth Piquine: Will get tired of reading about himself.

Thorund: Will fell half the great forest of Iardale, one tree at a time, until the herds of deer that called it their home will by likewise sundered.

Lagrak gro-Zhag: Will be reborn in his own lifetime, this time as son of Malacath.

The Liberator of New Mournhold: Will lose their right hand at the understanding of sphere-intersection.