[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

Ultima Numinitio

by The Reconstituted Man

[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Since the beginning of beginnings, there have been forces at play that may represent individuals, spindle-concepts or just irregular mathemancy.

The story goes: In the time beyond times, there was a king who lived in a palace. The crown atop his brow was a statement of his absolute rule. One day a thief broke into the palace, and took the crown and placed it atop her own head. All believed she must have been the king, but for one -  the court wizard's apprentice who had seen her take it. She had him executed before he could talk, but he DID talk - and thus the rebellion began.

The story sometimes goes: In the time beyond times, a king had a beautiful lover. He cherished her more than anything. But one day, A thief crept into the palace, and the lover fell for this charming rogue. But a maid had noticed, and told the king. When the king found out, he had all the thief and the maid executed. The lover fled in horror, and he has chased her ever since.

It is now a time within time. Always there is something guarded by the king but cherished by the thief. It is beautiful, or powerful - they are the same thing. A lover or a crown. The Very Thing. In this time within a time it takes the shape of a heart.

Always the sacred heart must be kept from the hands of those who would use it selfishly. The Chim-el Adabal, the Mantella, these were imagos of the heart and fought over like dogs by the petty fiefs of Tamriel. They whisper a promise of power, a promise wrought from freedom, and all the while the serpent slithers blindly and madly in his own dead skin, forever sealed in a scaled loop.

Deep within Paradise, the scion of the Usurper readied himself to unseal the diamond-knot of true understanding, only to have it taken away and given to the true king. 

Under the star-wound, the Sharmat turned the heart to ill-purpose, though the motives of his enemies were no more noble than his. 

All these tyrants came to be cast down by unknowns, and the imagos destroyed until all that remains is the Heart. Somewhere, now unknown, it waits. And waits.

The Dwarves had used it to reach Freedom. And then something happened to them that makes it impossible to know if they succeeded. Another was made, and this one failed. The heart has been lost. Who chases it now?

Somewhere in the world, the heart moves. It is being hunted by kings and thieves alike. It will fall into the hands of those who will misuse it, and they will remake the brass tower in one form or another. It will awaken one last time. The dream will end, and a new will begin from a remnant of the last. 

Those who remember this world will repeat the story again and again. They will lust for the thing they cannot quite hold onto, where to grasp it means to embrace stasis. 

The last numinition is this: It will break this world. Everything that is of the heart is of the world, and what remains will be something truly new. A hole in the scale through which the serpent's eye now glances, into a world that it cannot understand. For just long enough to open its mouth and release its tail.