<font face="$HandwrittenFont" size="16">

My initial reconnaissance of the cave structure revealed little. Some dark passages, dimly lit, gave way to rows of dusty, upright sarcophagi. These, if not bypassed carefully, would likely awaken ancient Draugr that sleep within. We occasionally have to fight such creatures, and our methods work against them as well as they do against any other undead, but they are generally left alone. They are the grim guardians of these tombs, and it is against our custom as Nords to defile such places. They are usually only a threat to tomb robbers and necromancers, not generally the sort of people we feel the Lord of Mercy's call to protect. As such, I decided to retreat until I had better methods of proceeding without awakening any. On the way out I did take a moment to note some simple long-cairns, piles of stones over what are presumably bodies, red spiral motifs daubed onto the headstones. It's not often that these are found in a Merethic tomb structure, but the practice appears to date from such times all the way to the modern day in some parts of the province. So without further dating evidence, I can't rely on the presence of these long-cairns to suggest that there has been any post-merethic activity here.

I have to wonder, and indeed I did as I prepared for my second inspection, why the Draugr might be undisturbed if there was anything further in. Perhaps the vampires are able to make their lair in such places without disturbing the dead. I had not encountered any yet, however. This time, using the tools of stealth I had acquired, I was able to tread further in. I did witness some Draugr ambling about, softly rasping to themselves, and tending to the flickering pyres that keep the place gloomily lit. I had not thought these monsters capable of such, but I was proven wrong.

I was foolish this time - I rounded a corner without listening carefully, and almost walked into one of the things. It drew in breath - Stendarr's mercy, do they still have lungs? - and hurled a curse at me in the tongue of the ancients, it sounded like 'DAH' - and I was hurled back by a wall of force. I was able to catch my balance and run - I wasn't about to try my fortune against one of the Tongues of old.
On the way out, I thought I saw someone in the snowstorm watching me - but when I approached, they were gone. 

My third attempt has been the confirmation that I needed. I came to a portcullis - and not of the same design as the ancient one near the mouth of the cave. In front of it was a strangely made balcony barrier - Strangely arched. Nothing like merethic architecture at all. And neither was what was through the portcullis. 
There were spiderwebs everywhere, and the low clicking above told me there was probably an enormous Frostbite up there, the size of a cart - so I trod carefully. The architecture here was very much different - I'd almost say Bretonic, or possibly Colovian, but with these unusual pointed arches. And up on walls, two hideous statues, like gargoyles looking down at me. I'd never seen anything like this - had the vampires been building his under the Draugr's atrophied noses?

A little further on I passed a door. Here I looked out past another portcullis into a huge chasm. This one was vast - and I could just about make out an arched structure in the distance, on a lake island. It was too gloomy to make out details, but the strangeness of that circular structure, and I think a bridge or causeway leading to it. I wasn't able to inspect the cavern any further - I'd left the portcullises open, and some Draugr had been disturbed by the sight of the presumably unfamiliar ruins. I saw them glancing around, with what I fancied was an expression of disgust. I hid in a corner and waited for them to pass - there were a good five or so - and slipped away. 
On the way out, I once again thought I saw a figure. I shall have to be more discreet in my future comings and goings.

</font>
