[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

On Nahfahlaar the Red
</p>
<p align="left">

Nahfahlaar, also known as Nafahrael and Nafaalilargus in High Rock and Cyrodiil respectively, is a red drake of large size and intermediate intellect. He is known to offer his might to wealthy rulers in exchange for their protection from our own order. His name is supposed to mean 'Fury for Water' in the ancient tongue of dragons. This may be explained by the fact that he is a fire dragon.

Records from ancient Skyrim state that before the Dragon War, Nahfahlaar had been one of many dragons siding against the Nords. Very few records of him exist in this period, and it seems that he was not particularly distinguished among their number. He is stated as having been enemy to the black drake Laatvulon even in those times. He is named as being present during the incineration of Aldricstead, and having been driven off by the arrows of the relief soldiers. Towards the very end of the war he seems to have a change of heart, and betrays the dragons at the battle of Shorstein, biting the neck of Kodleyntah who the Nords rushed in to kill. As a result, Nahfahlaar was allowed to escape, but was soon declared a viable target once more.

It is unknown where he went after that. He has had a habit of seeking protection from powerful mortals, and it is believed that he and Vulthuryol may have attempted to seek refuge among the Dwemer. Vulthuryol has not been heard of since that time, and Nahfahlaar next appears much later in Hammerfell, aiding an unknown king of the Forebears against the orcs of that land.

He is believed to have slain a dragon hunter in the first era at some time later, in the times before our order. He did this to win the obedience of the cornered dragon Yahgrondu, who served him by blood oath.

Later on, he comes into direct contact with the Dragonguard. Ja'darri, first Champion of Alkosh, who worked alongside the order, made a deal with Nahfahlaar in order to vanquish his ancient foe, Laatvulon, who was considered the greater evil. He offered one of his horns to Ja'darri so that she might fashion a Dragonhorn. The Order was able to defeat Laatvulon with this tool, and Nahfahlaar was not seen for some time later. 

He is believed to have settled in Orsinium for a very short period, and is even rumoured to have been in the Summerset Isles for a time. His last known protector was King Casimir of Wayrest, who was executed for harbouring the fiend. The drake escaped south and has not been seen since.

He is a large red, and powerful in his own right, but greedy and somewhat cowardly as dragons go. He is capable of breathing intense jets of fire.