The unequivockals of soul-trappinge are well knowne to the necromancer e'en solely versed in the rudimentes of the black arte, and as such it is my dutie to leave such partickulars for the tutor less season'd. For nowe it is my solemn obligatioun to recorde for the posteritie of the arte those manie and vary'd commisiouns of the preserv'd soule.

As esilie as coulde the less learned necromancer so teach the art of the trappinge of the soule, so too could any encantere or mystick so liste the thousande applicatiouns of the soule in the imbuemente of magickal weapouns and armoure, and so it falles to the moste wizen'd of all masteres to so detayl the forbydden logicks afear'd by all lowlie servantes and thralles of the Divynes.

For wyth the most ackurate and precise incantatiounes the sorcerer may for themselvs absorb and consume the very fabrick of the trapp'd soule, and in doinge so take upon themself the verie mantle of the soule's power.

Firste, the darke crystall must be attuned with the correct harmonicks, which may be done with the flutes of the deade or with the most antient tooles of the longe-lost Dwarfs, whose masterie over the natural worlde was so afforded by their wisdoum of sounde. 

The resounance of the darke crystall is AYEM GORIA, which may be play'd upon a flute mayde from the femeur or thygh-bone of a perish'd man or mer, as the rising symphonie of an apposyte dyrge.

If one has insteade the olde tools of the Dwarfs, they may so invoke the sayme notes and tones with AYEM GORIA as the higher of five frequencies.

The able studente muste then draw arounde themself the Circle Unbroken, be it in calx or be it in salte, and then such must be so seal'd and sigilled by the wardes taughte to them by able tutores. With the wardes and guardes so rais'd the studente may sundere the darke crystall with a maule and emptie theyr loungs, as sutche that when they breathe in they may bring in the soule's verie essentia. But be warn'd, the wardes must be secur'd well lest the soule so escape its prisoun and attempt black vengeance on the sorcerere. Those adepte in the artes of necromancie may performe this taske without concerne that the wardes may fayl them.