Un-Stars are those lights of the firmament that are in all appearance normal stars, but by their unusual nature cannot be.

All stars are fixed in the firmament. Their positions are fundamentally immutable. The light through which those sons and daughters of Magnus shine is through rifts in the non-fabric of the Void.

The light of stars has a magical constiuent called Varliance, a word that is almost synonymous with Starlight. Its major characteristic is that it can be used as magicka. But due to the static positions of the stars, Varliance is also Definite. Its fixed position is part of its fundamental nature, and in this way, most magick based on the aetherial works the same way whenever it is cast, unless the spell itself has introduced elements to change such.

Un-stars form one constellation in the night sky, that of the Serpent. There may be other un-stars in the sky, but they are far apart or too small to study. The Serpent is the only constellation that is not fixed. So what form do these stars take, and what is the nature of the light they shed?

They do produce light, it should be noted. They look exactly like other stars, and they do not move rapidly enough to be confused for shooting-stars, which are aetherial fragments that have emerged from that magickal realm.

The Serpent is associated with many dark things. It has made the number Thirteen one associated with bad luck, or of terrible portents. Some astrologers equate it with the most sinister aspects of Lorkhan. 

In the very cryptic 'Nine Coruscations', a fragmentary text, its author 'Star Queen Varalias' hints that the Un-stars of the Serpent bear alongside them one of the star-orphans, Xero-Lyg, who since her actions in another Kalpa (that may have involved creation of Mehrunes Dagon, according to recently circulated cult documents from a group called the Mythic Dawn) was cast away and left to glow so dimly as not to be visible. 

A strange narrative indeed, and the fact that it comes from two very diverse sources makes it all the stranger. Xero-Lyg is also described as fighting alongside Lorkhan in many different worlds. Could the Serpent and the Un-stars indeed be related to the Missing God?

Those born under the sign of the Serpent are often said to be the most blessed and most cursed. Their aspect is marked with the ability to use strange poison and to have an understanding of mortality and the earthly plane that transcends most others. Given that Varalias also claims that Xero-Lyg is associated with the Element of Flesh, it seems more and more likely that she, and the Un-stars, are connected with Lorkhan. But as for the nature of the Un-stars themselves, and their magick and their substance, there is nothing further yet to tell.