[pagebreak] <p align="center">


The Sharmat



By Tralcis Hollingreave
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
The Oblivion Crisis dominated all of Tamriel, and so the scholarly projects that had been worked on prior to it were for the most part thoroughly distracted. Now, with the crisis ended and the liminal barriers of Oblivion sealed, the truth about the threat of Dagoth Ur can be discussed in earnest.

Known as 'The Sharmat' by the native Dunmer population, Dagoth Ur was a powerful entity who dwelt within the crater citadels of Red Mountain. He was the enemy of the Tribunal gods, but he was also the enemy of the Empire and indeed most mortal beings on Tamriel. Only the scattered remnants of his forgotten Chimeri house were counted his true allies, and often then only through terrible magics.

His story begins in the First Era, when Lord Voryn Dagoth was a Chimer general and the loyal friend of the Chimeri war-leader, Indoril Nerevar. He was the high councillor of one of the six great houses of Resdayn (first-era Morrowind), House Dagoth. He was also, according to most sources, Nerevar's ally at the Battle of Red Mountain at the end of the War of the First Council. However, following that battle, he was slain and did not appear again until the Second Era, whereupon he was a vengeful god-like being who appeared to the descendants of the long-since disbanded House Dagoth (now simply 'The Sixth House') in their dreams.

Over time, a terrible sickness came to those who traversed Red Mountain. It could not be healed by any normal means, magical or natural, but it altered the flesh and drove its victims mad. This sickness came to be known as the Blight.

Eventually, the Blight became so powerful that the Tribunal were forced to fence off Red Mountain within a 'Ghostfence' powered by the spirits of deceased Dunmer. This was just barely sufficient a measure that bought enough time for the 'Nerevarine Prophecy' to be enacted, leading to the defeat of Dagoth Ur just slightly prior to the Oblivion Crisis.

How it was that The Sharmat manufactured the Blight was not made clear until sometime after. Nor was the manner of his re-appearance.

Dagoth Ur had survived because of ancient Dawn Magic left in place at Red Mountain. Those with a fondness for myth will recall the Altmer tale of Lorkhan's heart landing in Resdayn and creating Red Mountain. The truth of that tale is obscure enough, but whatever the case - there was indeed a large amount of dawn magic left over within the magma chamber. It was this source of power that the Dwemer had attempted to use to power their great weapon, the Numidium, moments before their departure from Nirn.

What happened next is unclear, but the official view is that Voryn Dagoth was slain by Nerevar after he attempted to steal the dawn magic for himself. Nerevar later died of his wounds, prompting the Daedric Prince Azura to promise that he would return to protect the Dunmer from the resurgent Dagoth Ur in later times. It was supposedly at this moment that the Chimer turned into the Dunmer, losing their golden skin and becoming as the ash of the land.

But the dawn magic preserved Voryn Dagoth until he was ready to rise again, which he did in the Second Era, now calling himself Dagoth Ur and uniting the remnants of his Great House through dream-powers. He was also able to mutate his followers using the power of the dawn magic, creating many terrible warped variations on the Dunmer. The same magics would warp and twist anyone other than the descendants of his House, and this was the Blight. His intention, it seemed, was to spread the Blight across the whole world. 

However, he was stopped by the Nerevarine, as promised by Azura herself. The political landscape of Morrowind shifted considerably during this time, with the anti-Imperial factions losing much of their grip on the province. The Tribunal Gods have retreated mostly from view, and some believe they have vanished from Nirn altogether during the Oblivion Crisis, due to their association with the Daedric Princes.