Their stretched skin retains its pallour in the depths of their eternal exile, and their eyes see not, and their mouths can scarcely form words, but know this - the lost Snow Elves of Skyrim speak to me in my dreams, for that is the only way they can.

As rain lashed on the windows of my lodgings in Camlorn, the candles flickering dimly as I supped on a fine dram of Flin imported from Narsis, I found my lids becoming heavy 'til there I sat at my writing desk slumbering. It is not so unusual for me to fall asleep at my work, or in front of the fire, especially if a modicum of liquor has passed my lips. And so once more I trod the ancient pathways of night's dreaming, my spirit lighter than a mote of dust on the currents of the rivers aetherial.

Presently I came to find myself in darkness; again, not unusual for my dreams, for they may take me as far as the moons and the spheres or as close as the nearby orchards and gardens. This time, I was in a cavern, lit dimly by strange blue mushrooms of whose like I had never seen, and with eerie stalactites all around. 

I marvelled at the sight of the cavern, which swept away further than I could imagine, until the cave seemed to be as like a very world, and with mushroom-towers greater even than the mage-princes of distant Telvannia. I wandered for what felt like days through avenues and forests of these colossal fungi, which swayed in the deep against a mystic breeze amid brass spires of forgotten Dwemer architecture.

It was then I espied a maiden, who beckoned me to her. She was elven, with skin as marble white as the alabaster walls of the Imperial City. Her eyes were milky white also, and so was her hair that cascaded over her ivory chiton. She was the very substance of beauty, or so I thought. As I gained closer, her visage fell away like tears, and there stood, or crouched a most wretched thing indeed - for the maiden, if so it still was, now crouched malignantly, her hair now matted and grey, her nose all but atrophied, and her eyes! Divines, she had no eyes - just sealed skin where those orbs might have been!

Yet still she beckoned me, and loped forwards into the eldritch caverns. I followed hesitantly, not sure yet if this was indeed a dream, for with that acknowledgement usually comes waking. Nevertheless I followed, until from the fathomless ruins of the Dwarves came a host of other such denizens. What a frightful sight they were - none had eyes at all, and few had hair to speak of. Their ears were longer even than most elves, and I supposed that the creatures I witnessed must therefore track by sound alone.

Some wore only scraps of loincloth, others wore full panoply of chitinous armour, much like the type worn by the Ashlanders and Armigers of distant Morrowind, but in inky black. When they had surrounded me, I heard them hiss and grunt and even click like bats, but no ample sound could they make from those twisted, harsh-fanged mouths. And yet I heard them then.

"He sees us, he sees us,
Deep in forgotten Mzark
Below thrice-breached Alftand,
Where once we gazed upon our lovers
Where last we witnessed kindness
Where last we wept."

The sound did not come from them, but from all around. Yet the words were unmistakeable. 

"Our eyes once saw the light,
now they only see the cavern,
soon may come the rebel
To pry them from our skull once more,
Free us, O free us Prince of Thieves!
Return our magicka to the world!"

Among them now writhed insects of enormous length, as great centipedes or beetles, fully carapaced with that same black chitin that the warriors of these lost blind Mer wore.

"Ysgramor, against your sons and daughters
We harbour long this grudge of bone,
and as our vision faded,
so shall your legacies and pride."

Ysgramor! Could these be the Snow Elves of ancient lore, vanquished in Skyrim and slain to a mer?

"Dumac, for your vanished kind
We shall not weep even that we could.
Did you build a tower from our sight?
Did it take you as high as heaven?"

They were talking about the Dwarves now, but I knew not why, other than that they were lodging in the ruins of that long departed race. I marvelled at the clarity and vividness of the dream, to the point that when I started upright in my chair I was still trying to make sense of where I was.

I made notes of the dream, and vowed to tell my friends about it. I reasoned that I had not been asleep more than half an hour, and so I decided that I should get some proper rest, and so retired to bed.

My dreams came upon me fast, as a welling tide. I was there again, in old ruins, alone this time. I found myself looking up at a marvellous statue, a great bald elf sat cross-legged wielding a torch, with eyes brighter than the moon. 

A man stood beside me then, or rather a mer - milky skinned as before, his eyes as white as the statue's. He pointed then, his elegant silvery hair cascading over his ornate ivory armour. His countenance bore a deep and captivating melancholy I can still recall in waking hours. He was pointing at the statue, and then we were gone. I walked among ancient halls much like those of the Ayleid, and then through the clamorous workhalls of ancient Dwemer ruins. 

I woke sometime after this, but since then my dreams have been of little else. I have been serenaded by bards of a forgotten kingdom, whose features give way to the blind and bald crouched things, who have no knowledge of music or beauty. I have spoken to my friends of these dreams, and they have mostly counselled that I speak with a priest or with a healer. But for one friend, Ysvald, an old Nord from Windhelm, who confirmed solemnly that Alftand is indeed a real place. He had no knowledge of Mzark, but stated that there are indeed legends of vast caverns of mushrooms beneath Skyrim. Of the elves I described he said little, other than that they are much like the tales of snow-ghosts that haunt the valleys of the Pale and Hjaalmarch.

I began to research the Snow Elves, or Falmer as they once called themselves. It seems they were set upon from all sides by the Nords in Ysgramor's time, culminating with the battle of the Moesring Mountains on an island north of Morrowind called Solstheim. After that, there were no more reports of the Snow Elves. The remainder had gone into a hiding from which they never emerged, if any had even survived, and the Nords were left with only each other and their Dwemer foes to fight.

By now I believe I have come to understand a secret of the lost Falmer. I will not write it here, but they call to me, call me to free their sight once more. I know a place, and I have conferred with the surveys of Dwemer ruins in Skyrim - confirming that the ruin I seek does indeed exist by that name! My dreams have been a prophecy, and I shall open the way. S'affra and I will return from Skyrim the heralds and saviours of a lost and beautiful race, and the memory of the Snow Elves shall once again be celebrated by all who walk across Dawn's Beauty!