[pagebreak] <p align="center">

Blood Queen of the Niben

Or, CHIM-EL ADABAL, DIBELA-MALACH, BALLAD AE CHIM

by Asuut-Ghajje

</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">

CHIM-EL ADABAL, DIBELA-MALACH, BALLAD AE CHIM

O Red Dibella, Queen of the Niben, Watcher of the crossroads, grant us in sacred peace the signet of the red diamond, the very ancient and most ineluctable sanctity of heaven.

Dibella, Dabala, Adabal; The essence of wanting, the thirst unquenchable, the last moment of unending stasis, the moment of perfect sleeping. The impossible zero-point, from which the other four points are memories in waking dream. The first and last of all things.

Know her love by its four points: The Chim-el Adabal, the completeness and complexity of wings furled tight and guardian of the sacred number.

Know the points by their names;

RED DIBELLA, the Queen of the Niben, Bride of Topal, Heart of the World, Minute-Mender, She that sparkles beyond all else. Time may only move forward, but it is by her urge that it may move at all.

PELIN-EL, the Star-Made Knight, First son of Red Dibella, conjured from the red mirror by his twin sister. What the legions of man wanted, he gave.

MEHRUNES DAGON, the Beginning of all True Houses. Four his arms, in each a razor, a point. In the last age he arranged his arms in such a way that the four points made a Red Diamond, and thus he invoked Red Dibella from her home below the sea.

MALACH, the remnant, who witnessed the death of his three brothers at the hands of the pyramid-daimon Boethiah. In his vengeance he mirrored the daimon's triangle-logic so that it shewed four points and not three - and he took his place as the nadir of the Red Diamond.

Red Dibella loved Malach, who loved her in turn, calling her by many names; The Red Star of Dawn, The Egg of Time, Merid-Nunda the Pure, El-Estia, Dawn's Beauty, The Amaranth and many more besides. But the battle between Pelin-El and Dagon constantly blinded the one to the other, and only in the brief moments when the one had bested the other, before they traded thrones to begin again, could they meet under the fading glow of evening Nirnlight.

When they are apart, they sing to one another; it is a song we hear at night through our sisters wreathed in sacred moth-husks, who recorded it to sheet music in aeons past, and stored those sheets dutifully in the White-Gold Tower. It is a song so beautiful that one may be blinded by one's tears forever.

Red Dibella was loved by all; the most desired being in all of conception. Thus all came to loathe Malach, who was twisted and grotesque, and not beautiful as his brothers had been. Jealous of her love for Malach, they spurned him and exiled him to the far reaches of conception, where it was harder still to hear the song of his lover. And then with glee did the jealous suitors join in the fight between Pelin-El and Mehrunes Dagon, swapping sides when it suited them.

Malach had fathered many children during his last time alone with Red Dibella, and though they were as fearsome of visage as he, they shared their mothers' candour for their desires. Malach taught them the importance of their exile, and that if they remained true to their path then they too would come to meet the truth of their love at the end of time. Many listened, though others listened to the lies of the jealous suitors, and sought instead to venerate the dead brothers of Malach.

The wise children of Malach let the sins against them gather in multitudes, knowing that in the forgiving of them, they will know the truest moment of love at the end of time.

Red Dibella loves her worshippers greatly, but favours the wise who show love to the unloved.

As Pelin and Dagon matched blade to point, each mirrored the other's wail louder and louder, for to strengthen the bellow was to amplify the song. Louder and louder the hearts of men beat to the drum unwitnessed. The four red points of Pelin's heart are the four red points of Dagon's razors

"Love was born from the ashes of cruel endeavours", said Red Dibella to her bleeding foes and wounded followers. Amid red tears we tried to remember which We were.