<p align="center">
Dragons at Windhelm 

by Negil Storm-Tongue
</p>
<p align="left">

It was in the fourth year since we first drew our breath against the Dragons that this thing happened. I have recorded it for memory so that it will not be forgot.

Sky-Mother Kyne, we give thanks to your gift, as it saved us that day. 
We beat our drums to Stuhn in memory of those who will soon meet his brother.

It had been a month with little to be thankful for. Dawnstar had burned before our eyes, and the weeping of our warriors at their house-burning had set all our hearts to gried. How could we win a war against an enemy that would not land within swing of our sword? And those that did, they would howl and gnash at us, and their frost-breathing was enough to punish any son or daughter of Atmora.

Helja's Arch was defended by our archers for three days before the Tongues reached it, and by then there were only three houses left standing.

And then, one fateful day, a storm rolled in off Hsaarik Head. It plunged down the valley towards Windhelm, and soon cloaked the whole city in grey. My brothers and sisters in arms got ready for heavy rain, but it did not begin at first. Gormlaith proclaimed it may be dark magic and I agreed, but Vofodor and Hakon shook their heads and laughed. Haelga cursed, said that she had been enjoying the sun, and on that we all agreed. We thought the heavy clouds looked better parted, and when we spoke our Words of Power, the clouds thought so, too. 

But even with their passing, the sun remained hidden. A then-apparent wing of Dragons stretched across the blue, and the curse that escaped Vofodor's mouth brought a hearty guffaw to mine. Our Words of Power did not spare us the battle, but they told us battle was coming. We joined it gladly.

And there he was, Fiikhgolniir the Red, his scales like rubies in the sun. Mirmulnir of the Mound, whose voice was the echo of peace, so he claimed. And there was Lokufttiid, who could pronounce the passage of the moons and the stars. 

We lost Andern that day, and Beithi and Hjorvald. Each one made good their account - Andern forced Lokuftiid out of the sky before he could reverse our fortunes. Beithi delivered Fiikhgolniir's killing-blow before she perished of her wounds. Hjorvald's death-rattle was enough to scare Mirmulnir back beyond the mountains. Sovengarde gained many new warriors that day, and they were chief among their number. The rest of us had done our part too, and Windhelm stood as it had when it was new.

The sun shone high for a month after that, and it was a day that heartened our warriors. We vowed that we would carry this victory to the World Eater himself.