[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Lesser-Encountered Atmoran Animal Iconography in Merethic Skyrim



by Professor Myrtle Woadely


University of Gwilym Press
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
A rigorous study of intact and semi-intact religious icons in the remnants of early Atmoran settlements from the mid-Merethic indicate that, in addition to the most commonly-attested animal symbols found in the Atmoran totem-faith, there were several other animals with spiritual associations whose aspect survives in scattered fragments.

The Crow, or Raven, was distinguished from Hawk and Owl iconography by Professor Harolbert Scolp in 3E 200 after a series of excavations funded by Gwilym University. The image is found on a series of small round tokens usually identified as gaming-tokens, since their size and shape is similar to that of a coin, but none of the mint-marks of Merethic coins exist on these specimens. A small concentration of these coins - the largest in Skyrim to date - was unearthed in a 3E 205 excavation in Falkreath Hold. They are currently in the University archives, registered accession numbers SK3-205-2 (409) through to (435).

The Hare occurs very rarely, and usually as marginalia in parchment-scrolls found in the Merethic archives beneath Labyrinthian and Winterhold. In these instances, the hare is often seen being attacked by a fox, or playing a chess-like board-game (as yet not identified with any existing material culture) with an owl. The fragmentary nature of Merethic scrolls means very few examples still exist, but the most complete two are within the archives under accession numbers SK2-799-14 (101) and SK3-320-6 (218).

The Goat has been found on a few worn sherds of burnished greyware associated with the early Ysgramorim, with one more substantial piece of iconography - a frieze made of wrought iron removed from the peat-bogs near Morthal. This frieze depicts a goat, or goat-headed man, sat at the head of a table, while all many human imbibers cavort, drink and attack one another. The accession number for the frieze is SK3-19-2 (1).