<font face="$HandwrittenFont" size="18">

Sister Radsah,

I would like to begin by telling you that you are the brightest of all my students. You were the one who asked the most pertinent questions, and who made the deftests leaps of logic. You can not have failed to notice that my handwriting is not as tidy as before - and you will already have ascertained why.

It is true - I am now blind. I had the privilege of studying a prophecy while visiting Senchal. The details I will furnish you with in due course - there is a certain aftermath to consider.

You asked me once, "why is the readable part of a scroll so small?" A fair question and I had no answer - if they were able to unfurl fully, they would surely be several feet long. But having read my last, I believe I now know.

You'll have heard many scholars claim they are not truly scrolls but fragments of creation - an oft repeated bit of received wisdom that conveys nothing on its own. A dragon is still a dragon, regardless of whether or not it is a shard of great AKA.

Sister Michelle, Church-wife of Julianos in Shornhelm once told me that they appear like towers - or rather she claimed that the Zero-tower looked like a huge scroll case. Now I believe I have it.

Elder Scrolls are like microcosms of the Tower. They represent a fundamental truth, an AE, an IS. At least, once they have been interpreted. Before that, they remain in two states, IS and IS NOT, or showing two endings that differ.

You have learned much of the cosmic duel/dual already. The king and the rebel. Ever notice how many of those great betrayals happen at a tower? And we all know what becomes of the determinist.

Is it any wonder then, that the reader of the scroll is struck blind, like the Shield-Thanes of legend?

They are, I think, truly shards of creation. Remembrances of a time when IS was all in one place and time, and when times and places were one and the same. A great tower, broken into many.

What, I wonder, would happen if one tried to read the Zero Tower? Would that amount to trying to read all the scrolls left in White-Gold at once? Now it seems I am the one coming to you with bold questions. But perhaps I have answered yours - the readable part of the scroll is simply the least important part - the rest of the scroll is the tower. Just as the library is the smallest part of our own tower

Perhaps my ruminations will amount to wisdom among our colleagues, or perhaps they will be dismissed like so many others. Until then I must return to my duties regarding the now-fulfilled prophecy of the Void Moons - and I shall imagine the look of confusion on your face that I will never see again.

In the virtue and grace of Julianos, Your friend and mentor

Aesculus Pheles

</font>