[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


On Meridia

by Vigilant Aedris
</p>
[pagebreak]
<p align="left">

Knowing that Meridia is accepted as the mistress of eternal energies, and that she opposes the works of Molag Bal in her every endeavour, and that she stands against the very concept of undeath, it is natural to imagine that she might stand to act as a reliable ally to the Vigilant. Indeed, there are such cases where alliances have been made to great effect.

However, it should not go without remembering that Meridia called back her ancient champion, Umaril the Unfeathered, in the time of the Oblivion Crisis. Though she may oppose undeath ordinarily, she clearly made an exception for her this ancient Ayleid king. We do not presume to know her reasons for such, and as far as our records state it is the only occurence by which she has invoked a champion from beyond the grave. All things considered it is not the worst thing that a Daedric prince has achieved.

However, the ancient king instantly began a campaign of murder, starting with the sacred chapel of Dibella in Anvil. The Champion of Cyrodiil was called upon to reform the Knights of the Nine and summon the ghost of Pelinal Whitestrake himself in order to stop this monstrosity, at a time when the entire Imperial province was in a state of near collapse.

Know this: Meridia despises free will. She sees mortals as playthings no different to the very worst of the princes, and our ability to form decisions as an aberration against celestial nature. Indeed she thinks our free will is little better than undeath itself. 

Meridia is not your friend. She may be your ally only in times of necessity. Against the dark whims of the Worm Cult and the Ordo Vampyrum, it may be difficult to determine who is the lesser evil. In these situations, it is advisable to let them fight and then deliver the mercy-blow to the surviving cultists.

With that said, Meridia's cults are less of a threat in Tamriel than most other princes. Most seek to defeat the undead, and her cults themselves do little to further the cause of her hatred of free will. But they should be watched carefully all the same; consider them tools if you will, but let not the scalpel slice your own finger. 