Our saviour, Merid-Nunda, guardian of Delodiil, second daughter of the sun! We give our lives to you, and in doing so we give our lives to our people. 

The strictures of architecture passed down from her father are her tool against the growing darkness we face. When Magnus designed the world, she was the voice that oversaw the precepts of the diameter and the open-handed mirror, the lens of flesh-myth and the rhyming consonants of eternal substrate.

Where once her and her siblings were to be builders, now they are beyond the circuit untraceable, and what wisdom we seek is gained by prayers of divine calculation and sacred geometry, through which she speaks in shades and tones. For the tapestry of the firmament is decorated in perpetuity by the apertures in the Great Chaos formed by those Ada who declined to partake in the crystallisation of Mundus. Most of those visible are those who aligned with the Magnus-chrome-vertex. Those others were known as the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus. Merid-Nunda was of these Sisters, as was Mnemo-Li, as was Xero-Lyg, as was Unala-Se, as was Valia-Sha, as was Londa-Vera, was was Iana-Lor, and as was Sheza-Rana. Their varliance bestows the land with life and plenty.

But while her sisters refused to follow Magnus, Merid-Nunda was cast away. She found herself in the sixteen realms, still pure of red light, but attuned to the darkness as such to ever keep it at bay. Thus we call upon Cenedelin to bind the earth, as we speak to Merid-Nunda regarding the light, for she is the scintilla that fears not darkness, and swims the waves of pull and spin indefinitely, the only light that will shine bright enough to pierce the darkness growing in Abargalas. Where other light fades, hers grows only brighter. Against Bal we call you, Merid-Nunda!

It was in the time before the Dawn, and the Children of Magnus the Chrome bestowed the weapon of wisdom upon a mirror of divine futures, who rose up and said: I am Dagon, and I am hope come and made flesh. The brothers and sisters of Xero-Lyg did create Dagon, and they did so with the glyph of flesh that was spoken to her by the Sixteenth Shade. But Merid-Nunda took Dagon as her consort, for he was pure-blend and unrefracted. Until after the sundering, when he became a tower of rage who forgot he had written the dawn. So Xero-Lyg did leave in grief at what her siblings had made, and there she rests now with the un-stars and in the shadow cast by the Thirteenth Pattern.
Merid-Nunda remained true to Dagon, and this angered Magnus, the Father in Chrome, his anger writ large by the sin of his daughter. He sent Dhaub-Lendi to convince her to return, and when that did not work, he sent Prophec-Tira to defeat her, but he was too weak. So instead was she cast aside on the waters of fate alongside the other coruscations. 

She took the hand of Dagon, who had formed a realm within the encircling unlight. But Molag, in his jealousy and also his hatred of Dagon, to whom he had fallen in the destruction of his city, stole Merid-Nunda's sacred light and hid it away in Coldharbour. He resolved to devour the rest of her, and so she hid among the spheres of unmaking. The Lords of the Chaos-Realms chided Merid-Nunda for her trespass and bade her return to Aurbis, claiming all existing spheres as their own. But Merid-Nunda formed of her substance a great drag-lens, and the light of Magnus was bent thereby. The rays refracted a new sphere from the chaos, which Merid-Nunda, beaming, did claim for her own. The riven star-orphan waits for the time she can reclaim what was taken, while surrounded in her mirrors that keep her light from waning.

With her twin-half ensconced in the cold harbours, she twisted a filigree of fiberings across the skies and un-skies across which she can sing colour and shade. Afforded this, she works her destruction on all the un-lives that threaten her law - granting or denying time as she deems fit. Thus does Merid-Nunda arc across the rainbow road from end to end, at one end stretching the Dragon, at the other end compressing him - halting time where she required it, bringing death to the unliving, and life to those long-buried champions whom she requires life from once again.Witness this! When the gyre is taken from time, Mnemo-Li shines like the sapphire, while Merid-Nunda glows like the ruby.

Anumaril stands against us, but Merid-Nunda may refract his armies into pillars of alabaster. In time she will scalp even his feathered brow and make of him a new purpose, for his moult shall be brought forth across the currents of time ahead of his appointed hour. No son of Bal can withstand the stream of aeons when it is undammed and unburdened, nor can any.

Until then we will distill the vibrant prism into the shape she has commanded. We give our lives to form this weapon, and in legion shall we let her crystallise our souls into the varliant lance of heaven.
