I put these words to parchment so that the sons of my sons, and the daughters of my daughters, might know the wisdom that came from a hard life that gave scarce but taught well.

Counting is important for anyone. Once you have learned how to count, you will know the names and shapes of a lot of numbers. You will also know how to add, and to take away, and to make a product and a division. If you can complete these tasks of numbercraft, then you will be able to find meaning in these teaching.

First though, you must learn how to count to Zero. Zero is the smallest number, and also the biggest. It is what you get if you take one away from one. Or two away from two. Any number away from itself is Zero. It is the number of not having something. Ball your hands into fists, and Zero is the number of fingers you are holding up.
It is impossible to count to Zero, but also the most possible, because by the time  you've thought about it, you've already done it. But you've also gone past it. So you can see, it really is smaller than small.

But it is also larger than large. Look upon the night sky. Each of the bright lights you see up there sits upon a veil of blackness. What is that blackness? Some say it is where the dark spirits reside, where Herma-Mora, Hirkyne, Orkey and others dwell. But even that blackness is painted onto something else. Nothingness.

A place where even numbers cannot exist. The great hall of Shor's ancestor, who has no name because he cannot be. A place that goes on forever, and which contains nothing. It is Zero. And it is bigger than all the halls, hunting grounds and domains of all the gods and jarls put together.

The second biggest, and second smallest number, is One. It is the least number of something you can have. If you chop something in half, you have two of it. But if you don't, you have one of it, which is the least you can have before you have zero again.

It's also the amount of Everything that there is. There's only one Everything, because if there was more of it, there wouldn't be. But Everything is smaller than the Nothing it's in, so it's only the second biggest number. 

Mind you don't think too hard on the Ones and Zeroes. Only use them in your craft as much as you need. Old Hjaldic of the Green spent far too long thinking about them, and one day he was swallowed by the mists.

Two is next. Our greatest warriors love the number two, because one person can't have a fight by themself. Mind you, some bandits also love the number, because one person can't rob themself. Why don't either of them love the number one? If they do, they think too hard about themself, and then they become like Old Hjaldic.

Then there's three. Three is a number held dear by the Clever Men, like me. A duel can be had by two warriors, but it takes a third to make sure they are doing it fairly. Sometimes it becomes a need for a third person to declare a winner in a duel. Sometimes it is just a need to record the fight so that people remember.

Numbers keep going on and an after that, of course, but those are the four important ones. Four is important because it's the number of numbers between three and zero, but really that's just three. If you hear Clevermen talking about the importance of diamonds, you know they have the wrong heads on.