[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

The Eleven Forces

by Ritemaster Iachesis

</p>
[pagebreak]
The Eleven Forces
<p align="left">
To understand the Old Ways, the ways of the Mystics and Psijiics of aeons old traditions, one must understand the eleven principal forces that act upon not just Mundus but the entirety of the Aurbis. Mysticism is not always considered a true 'school' of magic in the same way that Illusion and Restoration are, since it requires an understanding of these natural forces unlike the 'true' schools, which primarily rely on such forces but are sustained by the passage of magicka to and from Aetherius. They apply to concepts as well as solid objects, for oft these constitute the same thing.

These forces pervade all things, and constitute the formation of all matter down to its most corpuscular nature. Though some may seem obscure and having little obvious impact on the nature of our lives, all of these forces must remain in balance - the removal of one would lead to the collapse of the Aurbic wheel as we understand it.

STASIS, or the Prime Anuic Principle, is the force that ultimately resists all other forces. It is usually a gradual resistance, but eventually all things will, when left unattended, revert to stasis, in which it is immobile, unchanging and still observable.  Stasis was, it is argued, the very first force in existence, being the substance of Anu the creator, who was changeless until acted upon by Padomay (see Change). Stasis is important - things must be allowed to come to rest after their kinetic force has been spent, otherwise they will keep going forever. There are times, naturally, when a surfeit of stasis leads to lethargy and indeed death. 
Stasis is used by some mages as an attempt to reach immortality, believing that they can maintain their form until all other forms of matter have subgradiated to a point where they themselves are immortal by sheer dint of not having done so. This is a rather inexhaustive attempt to explain the process of Akastasis or Dracochrysalis, since it is a topic of study best avoided.

CHANGE, or the Prime Padomaic Principle, is the force that alters the nature of any object, energy pattern, concept or mythic. It is considered the most sacred of all the forces, for without it Stasis would be universal and there would be no way of experiencing anything. Anything can, in theory, change into anything else - an equilibrium (see Balance) must be preserved, and things must be allowed to come to rest. Philosophically, Change is viewed either as True Change (Aratagnithr) or Bad Change (Oegnithr), with the latter being change that either falls short of or far exceeds that balance. In more general terms, Oegnithr represents wasteful or harmful change, and Aratagnithr represents harmonious and empowering change.

The three forces of MOVEMENT, or the Kinetic Principles, are the forces applied to any object that alters the distance between it and all other objects. An object that moves at a steady velocity therefore maintains a parity (see Balance) between Stasis and Change. There are three variations on movement, each representing one of the Eleven Forces. Unrestricted movement is not itself considered a force, since it represents Balance, Stasis and Change. Mirror principles in divine mythopoeics feature these forces on a more metaphysickal scale, whereby two opposing outcomes may affect each other upon contact.

DEFLECTION, or the Prime Kinetic Principle, is the nullifying force that an object exerts onto another that it comes into contact with. If both objects remain intact, but one or either is turned aside, then it is said to have been deflected. Typically, deflection mirrors the vector of the incoming object - hence a ball that is dropped directly down will bounce directly up from the ground, and the ball that hits the ground at forty-five degrees to the ground coming from the East will travel upwards forty-five degrees from the ground towards the west. Two objects that strike one another and both consequently change direction can be said to have deflected each other. In terms of magicka, this represents the force that is expended against a target that is reflected back towards the caster.

ABSORPTION, or the Second Kinetic Principle, is the force by which a vector is altered (see Change) into another presence into which it comes into contact. A prosaic example is a log placed into a fire, at which point it is absorbed by the fire and becomes it. Similarly, ice placed into warm water. It is used in applied arcana, whereby a spell can absorb the life force of another target, or form a protective barrier that allows incoming magicka to be absorbed into the caster's own reservoirs of magicka.
An item that penetrates another item but is slowed down is also under the force of Absorption, as is an item that comes to a halt after moving along the surface of another for a while. This is sometimes known as Friction.

DISPERSAL, or the Third Kinetic Principle, or Disintegration, is the destructive force that an item exerts on another when neither can be deflected or absorbed. This is typically the destruction of one or both items. A glass that falls onto the floor is dispersed into smaller pieces, with the force causing the glass to break. This principle forms the basic premises of the Destruction school of magick.

BALANCE, or the Prime Aurbic Principle, is one of the most sacred of the Eleven Forces. It is the divine equilibrium that allows things to form from opposites, such as the manner in which the Aurbis was formed from the opposite forces of Stasis and Change. The most sublime form of this particuar form of balance is the sub-principle of Rotation. A wheel, spinning on a fixed axis, does not move from its position, and yet the outer rim is in constant motion. Only an infinitessimally small part of the wheel at the very hub cannot be said to be truly motionless or still. These 'zero-points' are used in all calculations regarding Balance, as they represent an origin point against which all other forces can be added to or subtracted from.

ENVELOPMENT, or the Second Padomaic Principle, is the force that subsumes any form into another, so that the second form cannot move in any direction without coming into contact with the first. At its zenith this force completely cuts off a form from all other things but the first form, such as a coin suspended inside an ice cube. In its lesser form it represents simple bindings, such as chains, which restrict the movement of a form in one or more directions. Conjuration magicks often make use of this, trapping a Daedric form inside an Aurbic bubble momentarily, although other forms of summoning do exist and tend to rely on more savvy uses of the force.

CONTEMPLATION, or the Second Anuic Principle, is very poorly understood by most and very hard to describe in mere words. It is the force by which an observable phenomenon yields to reasoning - or more accurately, the force by which reasoning can influence an object, force or concept. Higher mathematical models of the Cosmic Tower, especially those debated by the most practiced of Psijiics when discussing matters such as CHIM and the creation of inert matter from mythosophic matter, tend to touch on the importance of this force. It is a liberating force, able to counter the effects of Envelopment, but this is not its prime nature. Thought itself derives from this force, and the ability to recognise patterns, and thus change the noumenous into the phenomenal.

TIME, or the Second Aurbic Principle, is the force that gives form to nature in its greater sense. Often attributed to the passing of the seasons, it has a much more fundamental aspect: Space itself. Time is Change that affords Movement and this allows things to come to rest, i.e Stasis. It is primarily governed by Auri-El and Lorkhan, twin spirits of the formation of the Mundus, whose interplay allows time and space to co-exist as the Second Aurbic Principle. Change generally follows a stable path while Time flows normally and no other forces act, which leads to the predictable nature of the seasons and the stars, the phases of the moon and the ageing, birth and death of mortals.

MEMORY, or Mnemolia or the First Psijiic Principle, is in a manner very simple to explain - it is the memories we have, and their gradual change into water once they are forgotten - and also the most difficult. Any experience that can be remembered or recorded by man, mer, beast, Daedra or Divine will at some point, either due to the passage of time, death or simple negligence, be forgotten, and at this point the experience undergoes a mythic transformation into water. By that observation, all water is indeed formed of memories, though the means of distilling knowledge or experience from knowledge are deliberately kept secret.
To explain the metaphysics of Memory would indeed require a separate volume, and even that might not suffice to cover this subject.

RETROGRADIENCE, or the Second Psijiic Principle, is the gradual resistance to all other forms of Change. It is the slight but subtle reversal of misfortunes and clear cut changes, and the formation of things from diverse parts that were previously whole. It is often characterised as the slow healing of the Aurbis - in a state where no intelligent beings were enacting change, it would in theory revert existence to an undamaged state. It is applied by Psijiics in various forms, most especially the Rites of Moawita, whereby Retrogradience is allowed to flow faster, thus causing the cumulative healing and restoration of the beneficial humours of the body, mind and soul, and banishing those harmful ones.