[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

Sorrow, Death and Song


A Tale of the Moth-Tender Slaves of Ald Cyrod
</p>

[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Chains defined us. Some wore them around their wrists, holding our strength in check and bent to task. For some the chains wound round the mind, grim knowledge of what would happen to friends, husbands, mothers if they acted out of step. But always, surrounding us. Binding us. Constraining us.

We looked up from our chains to the tower that stood proud, defiant, above us all. Built by us, bricks fit by us, not for us. For our masters, atop their stone. Within the tower they had secrets beyond counting. Most beyond us, most withheld from us. But in some few small chambers we came to be the masters of a world without light.

These rooms were all the same: they were dark as a moonlit night, gems glittering in the mosaics along the walls. Heated from below, rich with the sound of water, and centered by a tree. Filling the chamber were moths. In the air, on every surface, whorls and clouds of insects. Each one bore three eyes along its wing and in the quiet you could hear them singing quietly one to another.

Our masters gathered the great scrolls, grew the twisted trees, tended the moths with eyes upon their wings. And so learned great secrets--learned how to master the world. Where they learned these things, we were never told. Perhaps the moths themselves whispered aloud the ways when the world was still young?

At first we were permitted only the basest of tasks in these sacred spaces. To feed the moths, to clear the litter. But we could hear the songs. And from the songs we learned to tease the silk from the larva, and such beautiful things did we spin.

As time wore on our masters began to see value in our understanding. The moths liked us more than our masters! And the scrolls, the moths, the trees--they demanded so much! Why should they bear that burden when we could instead?

The moth tenders were taught the secrets of their charges. To center themselves amidst the song, to channel it as the masters did, so that the scrolls could be interpreted. Though it cost sight and sanity, the secrets entrusted to us were beyond counting.

And quietly, ever so carefully, did we make the secrets our own. Clippings from the tree, larva from the moths, fragments of the scrolls, all this and more did we spirit away from these chambers. In dark hollows across the land, we began to tend our own glades.

When the chains were broken and the Lady of Heaven rose up against the masters, many of the chambers in that defiant tower burned. Many trees were lost, many moths. Even some scrolls.

Without us, without the tenders, the songs and secrets of the moths may have been lost forever. Remember this, then, that you are the latest link in a line that stretches back to time out of memory. A line made of sorrow, death, and song.