[pagebreak]
<font face="$HandwrittenFont" size="20">

THE SEVENTIE-SEVEN INFLEXIBLE DOCTRYNS OF THE MOSTE SACRED AND ABSOLUTE EMPIRE OF SAINT ALESSIA

As spoken unto her moste humble monkey-prophet, MARUKH

For the once-painted name of Aka-Tosh! TAM! RUGH!
</font>
[pagebreak]
<font face="$HandwrittenFont" size="17">
(1) It is made clere by the single directioun of tyme, that Aka-Tosh, creator of the worlde, is hymself of single nature; and thus there is no other ada in the heavens to whom we maye offer our reverence more. (2)  Thus we name Aka-Tosh 'The One', for his dominioun over tyme is beyonde all other poweres. (3) But the twin of Aka-Tosh, Shezarr Who Goes Missing By His Own Grief To Walk Alone Forever, is absente from the heavens and thus, (3), in being so singularlie misplaced and havinge given of his own selfe to give conceptioun to mortalitie, is thus venerated twice-such as The One. (4) All other Ada, spirits and giveres, takeres and biteres are, by divyne logick of the elder doctryns, recognised as the manie and vary'd earthe-spirits, saintes and daimons who go by three and thrice times as manie names as are already afforded to them.

(5) It is accordingly a moste clere blasphemie that Aka-Tosh be thought of in othere aspects than his owne. (6) The idea of Auryelle the Elf-Giante is the first stone of the Aldmerey Tainte. (7) The taint is like this: Auryelle was a two-faced eagle who look'd down the valley of time bothe ways. (8) But Akatosh, being moste true to his chosen people, sees time in only the forward-direction. (9) Thus the TRUE THOUGHT, which to act againste is a sin, is to consider Mono-Thought. (10) Mono-Thought thus begets Proper-Life, whose purpose (11) is the Expungement of the Tainte of Auryelle. (12) The Arc of Time provydes the mortal theatre for the Sacred Expungemente. (13) AKATOSH is Proper-Life, is Taint-Death. 

(14) It is the law that all must follow Mono-thought (15) and that expungement of the Aldmerey tainte is a lega and divinel requyremente of all. (16) To do so ys to honour the sanctitie of AKATOSH to whomb we owe our dulye appoynted mortalitie.

(17) To err is human, for we are borne lesser than all the saintes and great Akatosh. (18) But to punish is divine, for the scourge againste wickedrie must always descend from heaven. (19) All are thus guiltie until proven innocente in the eyes of the law.

(20) As Trinimac murder'd Shezarr, thus is murder illegal and to be punish'd with death. (21) As Auryel stole the Heart from Shezarr, thus is theft illegal and to be punish'd with death. (22) As the Saliache did lay clayme to the landes of the Nedes, thus is Trespass illegal and to be punish'd with death. (23) As the Elven false-gods conspir'd with Trinimac, so too is conspiracie to any crime illegal and to be punish'd with death. (24) Thus by this same measure, so too is Treason illegal and to be punish'd with death.

(25) Blasphemie is the crime against God, who is Akatosh. (26) Blasphemie against Akatosh is a crime and the penaltye is to be burned unto death. (27) It is similarly a crime to blaspheme the name of lost Shezarr (28) and to do so is to suffer death by burning. (29) Blasphemie against the dulie appointed saintes and greater spirits is a crime and the penalty is to be burned until dead.

(30) It is a crime to venerayte any spirit other than Akatosh or Lost Shezarr as a god, (31) and it is a crime to venerayte any elven spiryt as a god or as a sainte. (32) The penaltye is to be burned unto death and the loss of landes and tytles from next of kinne.

(33) It is forbayden to trafficke with daimons, nor to enter wyth them wyllinglie or unwyllinglie into any pacte or agreymente to the benyfite of said daimon. (34) To do so ys to transgreyss the sanctitie of AKATOSH to whomb we owe our dulye appoynted mortalitie. (35) The punishment is to be death by burninge, and forfyture of landes and tytles from thy next of kinne. 

(36) The Empresse or Emperor, beinge chosen by Akatosh hymself, is thus consyder'd divine appoyntment (37) and so edicts of the Empress or Emperor have the same weight as those of Akatosh. (38) Therefore, to resyst the Empire is a crime against god (39) and a crime againste god is a crime againste the Empire. (40) From thys it us understoode that religioun and politicks are bothe one and the sayme (41) and that anye religious crime ys therefore a civil crime (42) and that anye civil crime ys therefore a religious crime.

(43) It is forbydden to predikte the future, or to, through anie cryminal divinatioun, attempt to wyntess any future evente, for this is to transgresse the monolinearity of tyme, and the punishmente is death.

(44) As the mynde exysts in the worlde, thus are our thoughts guiltie or innocente. Thoughts that are not monothoughte are a crime and must be expunged (45) because the Elf taynte springs forth from unguarded myndes. (46) Those guiltie of improper-thoughte must be punish'd until thoughts are corrected.

(47) Artworke must note depicte Akatosh for he is far grander than can be captured in paint. (48) Artworke must not depict Shezarr for he is missinge. (49) Artworke of the saintes must be dilligente and show them in full grandeur. (50) Artworke of animales must depicte them as devoted to Akatosh. (51) Artworke of men and even mer must show them as devoted to Akatosh. (52) Only the symbols of Akatosh may be used in this manner, not Akatosh hymselfe. (53) Artworke of the land and of nature muste not include coloures not presente in realitie (54) for this ys to taint Akatosh's creatioun.

(55) All poetrie, bookes, almanackes, treatises, tomes, grimoyres, news-sheetes and banneres must show reverence of Akatoshe (56) and also of missing Shezarr (57) and also decry the Elven Tainte. 

(58) It is a crime to create any such art or works as mentioun'd above (59) and the penaltie is imprisounmente and destructioun of all workes. (60) It ys thus a crime to reade or beholde such workes, excepte by a dulie assign'd officere of the law.

(61) As the Empress is sacred, so is the Empire. (62) Thus does one performe holie deedes by servyce to the Empire. (63) Veneratioun and spreadinge of the Faythe of the One is goode servyce. (64) Servinge in the armyes of Cyrodyl is goode servyce. (65) Bringing doome to the Saliache and other Elfes is goode servyce. (66) Destructioune of unholie and blasphemouse arte and workes is goode servyce. (67) Alertinge magisteres of the law to crimynals of all natures is goode servyce. (68) Goode servyce is therefore a rewarde both in the Empyre and also in Heaven. (69) Failing to achieve goode servyce is a crime and is punish'd by imprisounment. (70) Performinge good actes with false reverence, to gaine favour in the Empyre, is a crime and is punish'd by imprisounment. 

(71) formal prayer and worhsippe muste occure at leaste once a week, on Sundas. (72) Chapels muste be furnish'd as befits The One. (73) Priestes of The One must be obey'd in all matteres of faythe (74) which is also all matteres of state.

(75) The Faythe of The One ys absolute, therefore it applyes everywhere outside the Empyre just as it does withyn. (76) Therefore, those in other landes must also be persecuted for their actes just as cityzens of TAM! RUGH! (77) The conquest of TAM! RUGH! ys law which ys proper-life which ys monothought which ys expungement of the Aldmerey Tainte.

</font>