[pagebreak]
<p align="center">

Golden Scales: The Tsaesci of Akavir

by Vansia Voraccius
</p>

<p align="left">

When one hears of the 'Snake Folk' of Akavir, one remembers old and sinister tales of scaled men hiding as normal folk, stabbing officials in the back and taking their skin to replace them. Citing old Akaviri creation myths, they state that the Tsaesci were never men at all, but devoured them in order to take on their appearance. Nothing, of course, could be further from the truth.

The simple facts are these. No evidence has ever been found that the Tsaesci were anything other than simple humans, though bearing markedly distinct characteristics to those of Tamriel. However these distinctions marked them apart no more than Nedes from Nords. 

However, serpentine imagery played heavily into their religious and cultural practices. This cannot be denied. Titles like 'Snake Captain' were used by their military officials, and their burial masks often featured serpents.

The idea that these people were themselves 'snake people' seems to date back to the early years of the Reman Empire, when panic gripped an already on-edge population. Claims about vampirism and scaled people spread rapidly, and eyewitness reports of these foreigners appearing scaled in public, apparently without concern, also fed into this contention. It might have faded away after the death of Reman III if he had not been murdered and replaced by Versidue Shaie, who admittedly did live for an exceedingly long time. 

We do not know why Potentate Shaie lived as long as he did - it may indeed be the case that he was a vampire, though none recall any vampiric traits of his. It is more likely the case that the Akaviri men simply live much longer lives than ours, or that their martial-spiritual practices afford them greater health.

Works such as Waughin Jarth's "Last Year of the First Era" have similarly fed into modern misconceptions about the Tsaesci. In this era there are none known in Cyrodiil, though a few old families with Akaviri ancestry do remain. This latter point should be proof that they are of human lineage, for how else could they integrate with the native people of Cyrodiil?