The dead Y'ffer whispers in cats' ears on dark, moonlit nights. Candles blow out, the smoke dances in the air and reveals the story hidden beneath the Ghost Moon.

In the northeast of Anequina, there used to be a wandering oasis. On nights when the moons were full, the inhabitants of that land would dress in yellow robes and venture out to the dunes, carrying pails with them. They would chase the fleeing oasis in the moonlight, catching some of its water in the pails so that the oasis would never fully dry out. They had a rule: once they caught some water from the oasis, they would never cover the pails with lids. Only the moonlight reflected in the water in the pail should ever serve as its lid. And the place was called Pailune, because of the cats who carried the moons in their pails.

Once there was an orphan of an unknown birth there. He was no one, and so he could be anyone, perhaps even everyone. It was all the same to the Khajiit, so they called him Atatami.

On a full moons' night, Atatami was following the clouds of rain to Pailune. On his way there, in the dunes where evil spirits wander, he was attacked by three of them.

The first one appeared to him in a blinding light. It was Merid-Nunda, the False Spirit of Greed. Atatami closed his eyes and shouted: "Begone, begone, Merid-Nunda, you jealous light! Your light cannot pierce through my eyelids!" Silent, Merid-Nunda shone for a while, but when she realized Atatami could not understand her, she left.

Next there came a roar and a cloud of dust and sand. Merrunz, the Demon Cat, was piling sharp sand around Atatami with his hind legs. Atatami closed his eyes, covered his mouth and perked up his ears. Then the dead Y'ffer whispered to him: "Curl up, curl up, make yourself round like an egg." So Atatami curled up and rolled down the dune. Merrunz the Demon Cat saw this and left, as if he had had enough.

The last one to appear was Molagh. He was a pathetic cat who still couldn't break free of Azurah's shackles, yet still he rolled to Atatami's side, hidden in the sandstorm Merrunz left behind. Atatami covered his ears, for Molagh's words were as sweet as sugar to him, yet they only brought pain. But Atatami forgot to close his eyes and he saw the movement of Molagh's mouth. And so, he heard Molagh's voice through his eyes. At last, Molagh blew his cold breath into Atatami's eyes and left, leaving behind only a red stone.

Atatami picked up the red stone and held it up high to Azurah to show her that he overcame his ordeal. However, Azurah knew this to be a lie, and to punish Atatami, she rotated the eyes of the cat in the sky faster than Atatami could blink. He could only watch in horror as his limbs shrivelled and his fur fell out. By the time Atatami could lower the stone, he was already ancient and worn out. Then Molagh, who had left before, appeared again and brushed Atatami's lips three times. Atatami's lips trembled with fear and regret. The red stone disappeared then and he was left only with the words, which he uttered aloud: "The fruit of the Milk Tree, the bloodshot pomegranate, the tender twins of Jel."

Atatami's eyes began to ripen then. Milky tears spilled from the eyes he could no longer close, and Hermorah, who had been lurking under his eyelids, began to steal the secrets he had learned. But Hermorah saw the fang marks of the Jills in his eyes, and he hurriedly hid himself at Atatami's feet. Then Ja'bal the Great Cat crawled out of the wound, and he cut off his own hands as atonement to the gods. Milk flowed out of the wounds again, but now it was a flood that swept Pailune beyond the stars.

"There is no one more irreverent than you. Know that there is no light to shine upon you," said Azurah, and she hid the eyes of the cat from Ja'bal. Darkness enveloped him as the lanterns of Jone and Jode winked out. Ja'bal cowered in grief, curling up like an egg, and rolled eight times across the dunes of Namiira. His path traced the secret of Lorkhaj in the sand and pried open Fadomai's lock.

"If only we could find our star, We would rejoice and exult." As Ja'bal muttered this, Blue Star came aglow in the darkness and black scales of Alkhan streaked across the horizon. And in the twilight, only Ja'bal's song and dance were true.

The dim night began spreading, embracing Anequina and in that dim twilight, all was uncertain except for Ja'bal. The king, who was not allowed to sing, carried the red moon to the highest dune with the help of Hircine the Hungry Cat, and the Kreenya Rawla choir sang to Azurah so that the king's blade might reach everywhere. Ja'bal was the Great Cat leaping over the endless dunes, but the king's blade reached his neck easily and severed his head from his shoulders. Ja'bal's head flew through the air, shadowing the red moon and Sheggorath laughed: "The child of the unknown star is dead, and so shall you be unknown, too. None of this will be known."

While the king was distracted by Sheggorath, Ja'bal vanished without a trace. All that was left was sand, ruins and Atatami who had been broken like a dead tree. The king licked the milk from Atatami's wounds and understood. He understood the meaning of the Milk Tree, that the pomegranate engorged itself on blood and that the tender twins of Jel had been split. Thus the king was trapped by the Milk Tree and could no longer wake from his dreams. But Ja'i the scribe feared Atatami, and at the end of the three moon cycle he hunted down all the kittens in Anequina.

Now only the dead Y'ffer remembers the tears Khenarthi shed during that time.