[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Snowmelt

by
Unknown
</p>




[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
They call me a liar whenever I tell this story. Yet each time, the cup the Priest of Jephre gave me fills with wine, quenching my thirsty throat.

My work was nothing one would break a sweat over. I was an overseer of the Snow Elves Ysgramor and his Companions defeated and reduced to slavery. These Snow Elf slaves had been working relentlessly for years, all to build Ysgramor's capital, Windhelm. They died almost daily because of this. The pile of their dead grew ever higher and far ghastlier than any corpse mound Ysgramor and his men had ever raised on the battlefield. After the Snow Prince fell and the Snow Elves were no longer a threat to us, it was as if Ysgramor's warriors awoke from a dream, growing old overnight, their axes rusting away before their eyes. They lived their entire lives for battle, and now, with the battlefield gone, they suddenly found themselves with no place to go but the back alleys behind taverns. Their only work now was to plunder the nearby settlements for more disposable slaves. For the price of a day's drink, they had sunk to becoming barely more than slave traders.

Amidst the creaking ropes, the dragging of stones, the crack of whips in the air, and the screams of the slaves, only the hammer kept a steady rhythm. I had always thought that my days would keep passing like this, unchanging, that I'd simply grow old until I retired at last. But things at the worksite changed when Ysgramor's warriors looted a defenseless Temple of Jephre and dragged its priest back as a slave. The sound of whips and screaming waned, and the Snow Elves began working much harder than before. They were still slaves, but they seemed full of life now. I suspected that the priest of Jephre had been filling their heads with dangerous ideas.

That day after sundown, the Snow Elves devoured their meager rations as if they were a feast, then returned to their crude bunks contentedly. They carried themselves with such grace one could almost forget they were mere slaves. The only problem was that at midnight, they'd sneak from their beds and gather around that priest of Jephre.

I confronted the priest of Jephre at sunrise. "I know you've been gathering these filthy Snow Elves every night. If you're plotting something sinister, I'll turn you in. Then you and every last one of your followers will hang from the outer walls of Windhelm."

After I made my threat, the old priest of Jephre took my hand and whispered to me: "Be at ease. We Snow Elves will never again rise against your people. That strength died along with the Snow Prince. Tonight, come and listen to our tale. And there, I will reveal one of our secrets to you."

I could have turned him in right there and then, but I did not. Perhaps I was hoping for some mystery, anything that would break apart the dullness of my life. So that night, I slipped away and joined the Snow Elves in their furtive gathering. The priest of Jephre saw me, nodded gently, then began to speak.

The priest's tale was utterly far-fetched. He spoke of the Snow Prince who fell in Solstheim, his resurrection, his travels around Skrim, and his freeing the Snow Elves from the chains of slavery. The Snow Prince would then lead them to their eternal homeland, Falmereth. The enslaved Snow Elves listened to that fairytale with rapt attention. I despised them and scorned their wretchedness, thinking this must have been their only escape from their miserable reality.

Perhaps sensing my attitude, the priest of Jephre offered me an empty cup once he finished his tale. "This is a gift from the Snow Prince. It seems you are welcome here."

The empty cup filled up with clear, shimmering liquid then. I could tell it was wine from its scent. Just one dip of it sent a wave of euphoria through me, blowing away all the fatigue. In that instant, I understood how the Snow Elves could work with such vigor despite being enslaved. I drained the cup, then, all sense of shame forgotten, begged the priest. "Is there any more of this wine?"

The priest answered. "My tale ends tonight, but from tomorrow onwards, you may tell it instead. Do so, and the Snow Prince will surely answer."

I asked him what he meant by this, to which the priest replied: "The Snow Prince has come for us. We are returning to Falmereth." With these words, the priest of Jephre collapsed into a pile of snow. I spun around, and the Snow Elves who surrounded us only moments ago were gone. In their place, only silent mounds of snow remained.

As dawn broke, I left the now completely emptied Snow Elf barracks. The roar of melting snow flowing into the river heralded the arrival of spring. The building of Windhelm was complete. And the enslaved Snow Elves had vanished like snow itself, gone from Skyrim entirely. 
</p>