<font face='$HandwrittenFont'>
<font size='16'>
<p align='center'>Journal of Ludwig Chlodovech
Part One
---------</p>

<u>3rd of Evening Star, 4E 16</u>

Today we laid my father to rest in the mausoleum. It is a strange feeling, knowing that his shell just lies there, alone, and that at any time I could go look upon it, as if he were still here.

Instead I shall honour his wish and begin the keeping of this journal. It's past time I did; he certainly prodded me into it for long enough.

Should this first entry be a commemoration of father's life? I lack the words to adequately describe him, I think. His achievements are familiar to most; everyone knows the Chlodovech Trading Company. There is little I could add, and less that would be of interest I'm sure, coming from me.

I can say, however... that he shall be missed.

We commend thee and lay thee to rest, Maximilian Chlodovech.

Father.
[pagebreak]

<u>10th of Morning Star, 4E 17</u>

It occurs to me that for this journal to be of any use to anyone, I should explain who I am. My name is Ludwig Chlodovech - now the Lord of Chlodovech Castle, I suppose!

Lord of a trade route to nowhere. It barely entered my thoughts as a child, as I have no memory of living anywhere else, but our castle is truly remote! It was father's grand project: a new trade route between Skyrim and Morrowind, administered by the Chlodovech Company alone.

A fool's project, is what they called it. How could it replace the Sea of Ghosts route, they would ask. What of the phenomenal expense in tunneling under the mountain, said others. But father's plan was more simple: why forge a new path when one can reclaim an old one?

Tolvald's Crossing was too dangerous, and too far south in any case. The mysterious tunnels that father set his mind and considerable fortune to - and he never did reveal how he knew of them - were not too far from the port in Windhelm. He knew no name for these tunnels, and since they went beneath the Velothi Mountains, he and all the workers came to simply call them the "Velothi Tunnels". Clearing the way was dangerous, but the work involved was relatively slight.

These tunnels emerged in a small valley high in the mountains, before plunging beneath the rocks again, down to Morrowind. Chlodovech Castle was built in this valley, a gatehouse in the centre of the would-be trade route.

And that is how I grew up: observing the construction of our castle. Watching and pestering the builders, stonecutters, carpenters and smiths. Tools and machines fascinated me. Hammers and saws, pulleys and levers. I relished seeing the walls go up, the rooms take shape. Father was more keen on the furnishings; they had to match the latest fashions of faraway High Rock. That was home, to him... and to mother. I was too young to remember it well, but they are distinctive.

Everything went wrong in the Red Year. Not merely for us, of course - it was the death of so very many - but that was when the tunnel down to Morrowind fell in, killing the workers inside. It was the end of father's grand project; even if our route had survived, the people of Morrowind did not. There was no-one left to trade with.

Mother died not long after. Along with my sister-who-would-have-been. So much went wrong.

The castle was nearly complete by then, and though - again - people called him mad, father elected to have it finished. Certainly, some things were called off and cut short - I think the Armoury was originally intended to be another grand entrance hall, leading onto quarters for prestigious guests, a ballroom and such - but still, it became Chlodovech Castle; our home.

My aunts and uncles always said that father never recovered from those days; why else would he choose to stay in the place that had come to represent his very dear failure? Father may have founded it, but they took on the running of Chlodovech Company from then on. My siblings mean to take up the business also, or so they informed me during their brief visit to inter our father.

They may have been anxious to leave the castle once they were old enough - they could not stand the isolation - but I of course remained, here with Father and the staff.

I remember I was sorely disappointed when the last of the construction came to a close. Some of the carpenters and smiths had treated me almost as an apprentice, but then they had to leave, and there was nothing more to do. Father had noted my interest in intricate mechanics though, and diverted them into a trade in intricate jewelleries. It is not exactly what I wanted, but it suits me well enough, and I can labour at home in the castle. It is also very profitable.

And there you have it, I suppose; Lord Ludwig Chlodovech... the jeweller.
</font>