<font face="$HandwrittenFont">15 Sun's Dawn 4E 199 
It can't be a coincidence that I met her in Markarth, the City of Stone. 
I broke the pledge of Mara that I have with Julia, but it's not my fault that her Dibellan scent misled me so. The City of Stone is full of vices and will swallow my minor sin with no one the wiser. 
 
8 Second Seed 4E 199 
I spent tonight by her side again. 
The guilt I felt for Julia almost crushed me at first, but the warmth of her skin made me forget it all. My wife isn't here. No nagging Julia here, only her, my Dibellan goddess. 
 
24 Sun's Height 4E 199 
I received a letter from the Imperial City. 
Nothing binds me to the City of Stone, but even the thought of leaving her is making me feel like my heart is tearing apart. 
I bought a Dwemer spider automaton as a souvenir for Julius. I'm sure he'll be pleased. 
 
11 Hearthfire 4E 199 
The City of Stone is the same as ever. 
Ill-mannered guards everywhere, persistent beggars, and everyone's breath smells so foul one has to wonder whether they eat corpses for their meals. But not her. She is the white lily of Dibella. My last Aetherius. 
Tonight, she will be mine. I brought enough gold to silence that Khajiit slaver. Provided that negotiations go well, I'm sure I can free her from these rotten people. 
 
12 Hearthfire 4E 199 
Negotiations went well. 
Spending 10,000 gold was painful, but it was a small price to pay to make her mine. Now the question remains... how will I explain this expense to Julia? 
 
24 Evening Star 4E 199 
She's pregnant. She was so happy when she told me. 
I was furious... I should be ashamed of my lack of composure. Did I do the right thing when I threw her out of the mansion, as scantily clad as she was? Should I have paid her for her silence? No. Should I have paid the guards instead, or use one of those beggars to silence her? No, it's useless. I'd be the first to suspect if it came to bloodshed. What else should I have done? Think, Marcus, think! 
 
27 Evening Star 4E 199 
That damn whore, she went crying to the Jarl... 
The Jarl decided I have to pay for her living expenses, along with donating 100,000 gold to Markarth. There was no other way for me to get rid of her. I agreed and paid the full amount, naturally... But the memory of the grin on the Jarl's face still enrages me. I wanted to hit him, but the guards surrounding him made me decide otherwise.
You're a powerful man, Marcus. You should be proud of yourself. But I still have to think of an excuse to tell Julia. 
I'm leaving this rotten city tomorrow. And I have no intention of ever coming back.