<font face="$HandwrittenFont">8 Morning Star 4E 201 
The head of the Bruiant family, Marcus, visited our Temple of Stendarr.
He requested an investigation of "unfortunate accidents" which happened recently in his mansion. Marcus suspects the cause of these "accidents" might be some kind of witchcraft. As far as he could tell there was no connection between any of the accidents, only a series of misfortunate coincidences. Keeper Thorondir holds the same opinion. However, as with that story about the necromancer lurking in the basement of a mansion in Anvil, I think there may be more to this.
After consultation with Thorondir, we decided I should investigate the mansion. 

10 Sun's Dawn 4E 201 
A month has gone by since I arrived at the mansion and no accidents happened yet. I wonder whether my worries were unfounded. No, I can't afford to let down my guard. If there are any evil spirits or Daedra here, they may be cautious around me and went into hiding for now. I will continue this investigation for another month. 

4 First Seed 4E 201 
Butler Lamthor, maid Patricia, and cook Summil all died tragically. Unfortunately, I could not prevent their deaths. However, their demise confirms my theory. The evil spirits in this house were only hiding. And then, when they could no longer resist their thirst for blood, they committed new atrocities. But they foolishly left some traces behind. I noticed faint remains of Magicka around the victims' corpses. The traces led to the basement storeroom, where I found a hideous totem. From the shape of it, I guess it belongs to Molag Bal. A powerful blood curse had been placed on it. Obviously, this is the cause of all this misfortune. I intend to dispel this totem tonight. 

5 First Seed 4E 201 
I've successfully lifted the curse on the totem. It rusted and its devastating magical power faded. 
But the curse placed on it was astounding. It was so full of hatred and anger it made me sick. Hatred in its purest form. That blood curse was very similar to the curses of the ancient Ayleids. Judging by the nature and power of the curse, its caster must be paying a high price. The most frightening thing is the caster's determination. What could drive someone so far? 
I am getting old. Dispelling that single totem exhausted almost all my strength and judging by the power of the curse, there should be at least 4 or 5 more totems. I can't take care of them by myself, so I requested assistance from the Temple. I sent the letter with the fastest carriage at the estate and it should arrive at the Temple tomorrow morning. The reinforcements should then arrive in two or three days. In the meantime, I'm taking a day off to rest. 

6 First Seed 4E 201 
I'm being overcome with fear. My hands are trembling and I can't stop sweating.
I made a mistake. I shouldn't have tried to dispel that curse before the reinforcements from the Temple arrived. Dispelling was not complete... The totem regained its evil glow and started making an eerie sound. I can feel its renewed curse crawling towards me. The doors and windows disappeared and everything faded away in a thick fog. There is no way out. I can't escape. 
Stendarr, give me strength. Please, give me the courage to face this horror.