<font face="$HandwrittenFont">8 Morning Star 4E 201 
I visited the Temple of Stendarr in Skyrim to find out the cause of the unfortunate accidents in my mansion. The Vigilants I talked to truly listened to my story. They were very different from the officials in the Imperial City. 

9 Morning Star 4E 201 
The Temple will send a skilled Vigilant named Bartholo to help. 

Both Julius and I are beginning to suffer because of these continued incidents. Julius hasn't said a word since his mother vanished. Even if this case is solved, will we ever have peace and quiet again? I can't stop worrying.

12 Sun's Dawn 4E 201 
A month has passed since Bartholo arrived at the mansion. 
The series of unfortunate incidents seems to have completely stopped. I don't hear crawling from the hallways in the middle of the night anymore. We haven't had such peaceful days since Julia's disappearance. However, this doesn't mean my worries have ceased. But it should be all fine now... The Temple sent us a skilled Vigilant. I'm sure there's nothing to worry about. 

Julius has been acting strangely for the last month. He's restless and seems to be avoiding Bartholo. Is he shy? He hasn't acted like this before... 

20 Sun's Dawn 4E 201 
The butler, Lamthor, is dead.
His own dogs ate him alive, and the scene was horrible. Dogs were barking madly and no one could get them under control. However, they calmed down when Bartholo rushed to the scene and cast some spell. He said someone cast a frenzy spell on them. 
Who could have done that? There's no one skilled in magic on my estate. 

25 Sun's Dawn 4E 201 
The maid, Patricia, killed herself. 
Bal, the other butler, found her dead, hanging in her room. She always seemed fine to me, and she wasn't struggling with anything. Why in Oblivion did she do this? 

1 First Seed 4E 201 
The cook, Summil, went insane. 
He attacked me with a meat cleaver, but I got away without a scratch, thanks to Bartholo. I had Summil restrained and confined in the storeroom. 
I hear crawling from the hallways again. It sounds even louder than before. Whatever it is, it's a bad omen. I should tell Bartholo about it tomorrow. 

2 First Seed 4E 201 
Summil is dead. He was eaten alive by a horde of Skeevers. It's all getting worse. I think Bartholo knows something, but he won't talk to me. Is there a reason he wouldn't tell me anything? 

5 First Seed 4E 201 
Something's wrong with Bartholo. He looks exhausted and somehow distant today. What happened?
Julius has been spending a lot of time in Julia's room lately. Does he still miss his mother? 

6 First Seed 4E 201 
Bartholo didn't leave his room today.
I tried to speak to him, but there was no reply. He must have been still asleep. I hope he's not sick...
 
Julius has been playing in front of Bartholo's room. He was avoiding Bartholo for a long time, didn't even want to approach his room... What changed his mind?