<font face="$HandwrittenFont">3 First Seed 4E 200 
My wife, Julia, has grown cold to me. She won't even look me in the eye, let alone talk to me.
Has she found out about my infidelity? No, she couldn't have... 

9 Sun's Height 4E 200 
Julia and Julius disappeared. Servants searched all around the mansion, but they haven't found them yet. 

19 Sun's Height 4E 200 
They found Julius in the forest. He was so scared he couldn't even speak.
Julia is still missing. 

28 Sun's Height 4E 200 
A Vigilant of Stendarr visited the mansion. His name was Jacob.
He brought my wife's ring with him. According to him, Julia had been found floating in the lake Ilinalta to the north. A fisher found her. Strangely, her body was burned, the water around it boiling, and large amounts of dead fish and birds floated around it. Jacob said her body was still burning from the inside... What depraved sorcerer could have done this to her? He said he put out the flames inside her body and buried her deeply. He found a ring with my wife's and my name among her ashes and then came all the way from Skyrim to bring it to me. 

Strangely enough, I feel relieved. The news of her death saddened me, but I shed no tears for her. Did the love I swore for her before Mara fade so completely? I wonder why... But now I'm relieved. 

Julius hasn't spoken since the day they found him in the forest. Finding out about his mother's death will only sadden him even more. I won't tell him about Julia's death. 

17 Frostfall 4E 200 
The maid, Heather, fell down the stairs and broke her neck.
Her hometown was in Valenwood... Silvenar, I think. Ten gold coins should be enough to send her body there. She was always a clumsy girl, but never to this extent...
Julius didn't react, even though he saw her death. I'm ashamed to admit I'm terribly afraid for him. He's all I have left...

28 Frostfall 4E 200 
Lately, I keep hearing something crawling along the hallways in the middle of the night.
I gathered my courage and tried to find out the source of that sound. But I couldn't find anything. Am I just hearing things? If so, I'm tired of it. And that thing with Heather... I need a long break. I was offered a few positions in the Imperial City, but I'll turn them all down.
 
I hired a new butler today. A Wild Elf, I think his name is Bal. Julius is unusually fond of him. I hope he'll be able to take good care of my son. 

19 Sun's Dusk 4E 200 
The other butler, Clifford, drowned in the courtyard pond.
The cause of his death was likely an illness of the heart. Healers told me some complicated name of the illness, but it tells me nothing. Clifford served the Bruiant family since I was a child. He was almost like a family to me... It saddened me to the bottom of my heart to see him gone. And still the tears won't come. Just as they didn't when my wife died. I wonder if I am just a heartless man...
Julius was watching that pond in the courtyard. I wonder if he's grieving Clifford's death... I can't read any emotion from his empty eyes. 

7 Evening Star 4E 200 
The sound of something crawling down the hallways is getting louder. This shouldn't be happening. Is something wrong with my mind? 

17 Evening Star 4E 200 
The Khajiit gardener, M'zaq, died.
He fell from the tree and slit his throat with his own gardening shears. The accident happened right in front of me, right after I greeted him in the morning. This is completely insane! I'm not out of my mind! 
There's something in the mansion. A source of that crawling sound. Something horrible is crawling around the house. 

29 Evening Star 4E 200 
I'm having nightmares every night.
In a room full of rust and blood I see Julius, his eyes blazing like fire. Julia stands beside him, takes my hand, and places a single red stone in it. The stone burns in my hand, turning my arms into ash. I scream in pain, but Julia just laughs soundlessly, and Julius only looks at me. The nightmare always ends there, but it's getting clearer and clearer every day.
It's just a stupid dream and yet it frightens me... What am I supposed to do?