What Khajiit Heard
by Ja'zhan
[pagebreak] 

This one heard about a knight of the Alessian Order.
He had many fine friends and was extremely wealthy. He retired from his service after the cleansing of Malada and lived a carefree life. This knight was one of those who lived in the conviction that the gods themselves had given him the right to decide about the life and death of his subjects. Some say there are few like him, but this Khajiit thinks even one such person is one too many. And this is how this Khajiit saw him.
 
Well, this knight lived on his estate with several hundreds of subjects and treated his neighboring landowners like fools. In short, he was overbearing. He kept dozens of hounds in the kennels of his palace, and dozens of kennel guards. They were all armored and rode horses, just like the nobles.
 
One day, one of the servants' children, a kitten barely nine years old, accidentally hurt the knight's hound while playing with a stone. The knight noticed this and asked the kennel guard why his hound was limping. When the kennel guard replied in a cold sweat that a kitten threw a rock and hurt his hound's leg, the knight ordered him to catch the kitten. So they took the kitten from his mother and locked him in a cell for the night.
 
The next morning, the knight mounted his horse and rode out to prepare for the hunt. There were hounds and kennel guards all around him. All the servants had been summoned and in their front stood the mother of the kitten who injured the knight's hound. Eventually, they brought the kitten from his cell. The morning fog seemed red in the sun. It was not a good time for a hunt, but the knight had no intention of calling it off. The knight ordered the kitten to be undressed. The child stood there, completely naked, trembling, and speechless with fright.
 
The knight gave the signal. "Run!" the kennel guards yelled, and the kitten ran. The knight grinned and shouted: "Hunt!" and he released his hounds. They hunted down the crying kitten and tore him to shreds in front of his mother's eyes.