Prophet Marukh the Imga drank the milky water in the Ayleid temple of Malada and received the following vision: 

1 
The first thing taken from her was her pure blood.
Her love tried to wipe away her tears with a dagger.
But the blood was unstoppable, and it only rusted Arkay's scythe.

2 
The pilgrim burned, and the Stone rolled out of his pocket.
Still blazing, a priest picked it up and burned himself.
And the burn dimmed the eyes of Auri-El.


3 
First, the father swallowed the Stone, then the mother and daughter followed.
Their blood flushed boiling hot, but their hearts grew as cold as ice.
They realized even the love of Mara has its limits then.


4 
The Stone borrowed the bard's voice and sang for the mad cat king.
A town sank in the red mist at the end of the song.
The gentle breeze ceased, and the voice of Kynareth faded.

5 
The Stone fell into the hands of the inquisitor. 
Those who kissed her feet gathered the firewood beneath her. 
Mara wept, but the flames only rose higher.

6 
The Stone came to rest at the feet of the grave keeper. 
He stumbled over the Stone and crushed the grave robber's skull. 
Her grave was stained with blood, but the grave keeper could only stand there.

7 
A man jumped off the Stone. 
She stumbled over the Stone and fell into the bottomless darkness. 
And a man picked up the Stone again. 

8 
A man was killed by his own brother in the square. 
The fat brother picked up the Stone and held it fast. 
The Stone burst into the flames and burned the brother's hand. 

9 
The brother was killed by an unnamed slave trader. 
A gate opened and the burning Stone looked into his eyes. 
The slave trader only nodded and stepped through the gate. 

10 
The burning Stone appeared before a Vigilant. 
The Vigilant sacrificed his love and received a false heartbeat in return. 
She became the Stone and was thrown into the land of the north. 

11 
A woman maddened with jealousy. 
She swallowed the burning Stone and was consumed by the flames. 
A child followed his mother, but the blood only grew colder. 

12 
The burning Stone whispered sweetly to a man who knew nothing of his past. 
The man willingly brought the Stone to the temple, but he could not reach beyond Oblivion. 
The horn rusted, and the children of the temple stopped praying. 

13 
A person and the burning Stone. 
They declined the Stone twice but swallowed it with starving hunger for the third time. 
The gate opened, and the gatekeeper gently pulled their pale hand. 

The vision of the prophet Marukh ends here.