An account of the eight men and women who served and were canonized by the prophet Marukh.
The original manuscript was lost during the War of Righteousness, and the following is a compilation of fragments from a manuscript found at lake Ilinalta.

Sard 
A woman of eternal youth with one red and one blue eye. She used to be a handmaiden of St. Alessia. After Alessia's death, she first served Emperor Belharza and then, after the founding of the Alessian Order, she served prophet Marukh. Thanks to the blessing of St. Alessia old age could never touch her and even at the age of more than a hundred years she still kept the appearance of a young woman. After Marukh's death, she aged rapidly, as if she suddenly remembered mortality before finally turning to ash, leaving behind only her jewel-like eyes. 

Moura 
A great healer born in High Rock. Her true name was Mary. She had possessed exceptional healing powers and cleansed lake Ilinalta of the tainted blood of the vampires within a single night. It is said she was executed after the confrontation with the Alessian Order during the Thrassian plague epidemic. Because of this, her name was erased from the later records of the Alessian Empire. 

Jhunal 
A mage from Atmora. After he was banished from Skyrim, he joined Marukh's Alessian Order. His extensive knowledge of magical runes contributed greatly to Marukh's growing influence in the eastern parts of the Empire. In his last years, he completed a secret arcana called "Marukh's Torch" which could burn down an entire city, but was exiled from the Order when he refused to share this secret art with the Alessians. After Jhunal's death, the knowledge of his arcana was passed to his most trusted disciple Cosmas. However, to regain the trust of the Alessians, Cosmas used the arcana to cleanse several cities, including Malada and Pailune. Since Jhunal had been expelled, the name of his disciple Cosmas was used in the later records of the Alessian Empire. 

Nenyond 
Originally a feudal lord, ruling over eastern Cyrod. He was a member of the Marukhati Selectives but was considered very moderate among the fanatics. He spent his entire fortune to build an underground priory on his territory, but after finding ruins from the Dawn Era he disappeared along with his friend Manthar. After his disappearance, the seat of the eastern lords was taken over by a knight named Varla on the recommendation of Emperor Belharza. 

Manthar 
He was a sorcerer and an architect of the Alessian Order. He was involved in the construction of hundreds of priories supported by Nenyond. After completion of the underground priory, he disappeared along with Nenyond while exploring the ruins discovered during the construction work. 

Silorn 
One of the founders of the Marukhati Selectives. They say he saved a drowning baby from the lake Rumare, just as Marukh's prophecy foretold. He went into the depths of the ancient ruins to search for the missing Nenyond and Manthar, but after a few days, only his skin returned to the surface. As a result, the entire underground priory and the excavated ruins were sealed. 

Caliburn 
One of the founders of the Marukhati Selectives. Even within the sect he was considered one of the most fanatical. He took the holy body of Marukh to Malada and tried to open a gate to Aetherius there but failed and vanished, along with hundreds of his followers. 

Pelan 
Unknown origin. It is said it was he who found the prophet Marukh deep in the jungles of Colovia. As Marukh's most trusted servant, he was entrusted with the care of his relics after Marukh's death. Thanks to the blessing of St. Alessia, his life extended for thousands of years, but his form gradually became less and less human.