What we call vampirism is ultimately nothing more than a curable "disease". It contains some magical elements, but rudimentary restoration magic can counteract them. For vampires called Lamae's Kin, however, this is not so. Their vampirism is not a mere disease, but a curse that deforms one's body through great pain. The curse is bloodborne, but inexplicably, it has only been confirmed to be transmitted orally. Perhaps the act of drinking the blood itself triggers the curse, but so far there has been no confirmation of infection through wounds. In addition, the infected begin seeing the figure of a woman named Lamae in their dreams and gradually become emotionally unstable. In the last stages of the disease, symptoms of insanity and vampirism become prominent. There is no established cure for the disease, and the Mages Guild recommends that the infected be incinerated immediately. However, it is now a very rare disease, and since the last report of its discovery in Skyrim during the Second Era, there have been no confirmed sightings of Lamae's Kin.

According to the records of the priest Ainam, Lamae's Kin has been last confirmed on the 7th of Frostfall in 2E 582, ten years after the Akaviri invasion, in a tiny fishing village near lake Ilinalta. 
All the villagers had been killed, including women and children. Pieces of flesh that had probably belonged to the villagers were scattered around the village and their entrails piled up in the village square. A vampire who committed this tragedy was a boy of around ten years who also lived in that village. The boy was found in the pile of intestines, his body covered with countless pale tumors. The records show he was still half-conscious at the time, even occasionally muttering the names of his family. By the time the Mages Guild received news of the incident and arrived at the village, the boy had already become a bloodthirsty monster. The mages immediately incinerated the boy and his ashes were to be kept under the strict supervision of Arcane University. (These ashes were allegedly lost to the winged Daedroth during the mayhem caused by general Talos towards the end of the Second Era and their current whereabouts remain unknown.) Although no investigation on the source of the boy's vampirism was ever attempted, it is doubtless that Lamae's Kin was present in that village. As evidence of this, records show that small fires frequently flared around the lake Ilinalta for several months after the incident. 

It is safe to assume that there have been repeated clashes between members of the Mages Guild and vampires.