[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Petition to House Tharn, Vol. 68

by Unknown
</p>



[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Pelan: "Looks like we're executing even the prisoners not on the list now ... I've even heard some of them claimed to be Periff. Just ... what are we executing?"

Amicus: "You doubt our faith."

Pelan: "Can you at least tell me what they were jailed for and where they were from?"

Amicus: "No one knows who they were or where they came from. But something we do know ... That their eyes do not see the truth we want them to see. What greater sin could there be in the eyes of the Alessian Order?"

Pelan: "I don't understand. I demand an explanation."

Amicus: "The 'Prisoner's' fate is a grand thing. No one can resist its flow. When they follow the prophecies written in the Books of Stars and Frost, then such a future will surely come true. No matter how much we dance on the gradients, they would simply create a world they want, in each and every moment."

Pelan: "Isn't that precisely this Shezarrine we've been looking for? Why kill them?"

Amicus: "They do not see us. In turn, we refuse to see those who refuse to see us."

Pelan: "They're here to save us! How many times do you think you can repel their help?"

Amicus: "Their 'salvation' would destroy what we've built up through all these years. It would destroy us. That is why we reject them. We don't want that freedom of theirs."

Pelan: "All we've built up so far is a pile of corpses! What value do we truly possess? We should be glad to give up our lives, to pay for all this with our bodies!"

Amicus: "We require no forgiveness. We require no punishment. We've already decided to reach heaven even if we have to drown all of Nirn in the sea of blood and excrement."

Pelan: "Isn't that exactly what hell sounds like?"

Amicus: "No, this is our heaven. We were born with no other choice but to reach it by violence."

Pelan: "I disagree. We still have the Word."

Amicus: "The Word we have is God, and his love is violence itself. Law, morality, all other norms ... nothing but verbal violence. We mortals are the proof of the folly and arrogance of the Gods. And so, we wish to make this right."

Pelan: "But I still think ..."

Amicus: "Give it up, my friend. Our power and authority certainly came from the Gods. But our rule did not ... for all crowns are illuminated by the Stone of Fire."