[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Petition to House Tharn, Vol. 23

by Unknown
</p>



[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Pelan: "Is it true that the Alessian Order decided to strip the elven races of their citizenship rights? Followed by giants, minotaurs, and other non-human races?"

Amicus: "It's true. And I agree with this, of course. It's only natural if we are to follow the doctrines of the Alessian Order."

Pelan: "Are you forgetting that they too joined the rebellion of St. Alessia and contributed greatly to the creation of this Empire? The rebellion would have failed without their help, no matter how many times Pelinal appeared. And if that had happened, we'd still be living miserably as slaves or even livestock under the yoke of the Ayleids!"

Amicus: "That may be so. But either way, none of them are humans. The elves are wicked and lowly, and the giants and minotaurs? They are but beasts. Nay, monsters, even! They cannot be allowed to be our neighbors."

Pelan: "The ideal of St. Alessia ... the ideal of this very Empire is to unite the many races, to let them develop together. It is to bring peace to this continent, this bloody Arena, to build our Tower not by piling up corpses in a struggle but by understanding and diplomacy. This, this should be the ideal of the Alessian Order, too! So why do you oppose it? What do you believe in?"

Amicus: "In the words of St. Alessia, of course. We believe and follow the Seventy-Seven Doctrines, brought to us by the prophet Marukh."

Pelan: "Then why don't you help them keep their citizenship?"

Amicus: "I told you. They are not humans. The Alessian Empire is an empire created by humans and for humans. It belongs neither to the evil elves nor to the deformed inferior races. It belongs to us, the people of the Empire. And the only people of the Empire are us humans. The rest of them are not humans, none of them."

Pelan: "I know of no such statement in the Seventy-Seven Doctrines."

Amicus: "'All are guilty until proven innocent.' Thank the Gods for the words of the prophet Marukh. We have no guarantee that the elves and the other races will not harm the human races in the future. We, the Alessian Order, simply wish to protect the lives of our good citizens. This is a just defense of the races of Man, our holy war. If you truly love our people, then you will understand."

Pelan: "... I don't understand."

Amicus: "Listen, all of us must obey authority. And authority comes from God. Any God. That is why we, the Alessian Order, have created our God as well. Such is our decision. You must simply follow it."

Pelan: "There is no freedom in this. You forget for what purpose Kynareth sent Morihaus and Pelinal to help the human races."

Amicus: "There are no coincidences in a God's world. It is all inevitable. There is no such thing as free will. Kynareth's answer to the prayers of St. Alessia has shown us that humans are truly nothing but slaves to the Gods. Even after we broke free from the dominion of the Ayleids, our mortal lives remain but toys to the Gods' whims. And that is why we must free our people from the games of the Gods."

Pelan: "... What are you planning to do?"

Amicus: "We will set right the wrongs done by St. Alessia. We will separate Auriel, the God of those filthy elves, from Akatosh. When that happens, the elven history will dissolve and their races will be extinct. The other non-human, lesser races will perish as well, of course. But our heaven lies beyond that. For only in heaven there is freedom. Freedom for races of Man, and races of Man alone. The Blue Star will be able to see and hear only us. And after that, even the Heart of Shezarr will be reforged. We shall remake this Aurbis with artificial Flowers, and rebel against the world of Gods. We alone will survive, from the conception of Mundus to its death. May this repeat forever ... true human heaven."

Pelan: "This is insane. You can't possibly do this."

Amicus: "Ah, but all the gods are insane, surely. This world, our Mundus? It is a product of madness. Therefore, we can accomplish it ... with even more madness."