[pagebreak]
<p align="center">


Petition to House Tharn, Vol. 11

by Unknown
</p>



[pagebreak]
<p align="left">
Pelan: "What are you thinking, imprisoning Emperor Belharza? This is treason!"

Amicus: "That's not Emperor Belharza. That's just a pathetic Minotaur who convinced himself he's the son of St. Alessia. St. Alessia was a cruel woman. To pick up an orphaned Minotaur child and raise it as her own ... It seems she was not aware just how low the intelligence of the Minotaurs is. And so, this beast falsely claims to be the child of Morihaus and St. Alessia and has unjustly occupied the throne to this very day. You should be thankful we aren't simply executing him. If only the beast was intelligent ..."

Pelan: "Whatever his birth, the Amulet of Kings chose him. This should be the best proof of who he is! Why are you pretending otherwise?"

Amicus: "... Are you saying that St. Alessia opened her legs to a beast and pulled that deformed monster out of her womb? The St. Alessia we Alessians revere is not some whore consorting with beasts!"

Pelan: "No, St. Alessia did not consort with a beast, but with an ancient spirit. The blood of Ada is unstable as it is. It is simply that the state of belief at the time reflected itself strongly in Emperor Belharza's appearance. And it's not that the Alessian Order not executing him out of any generosity ... you cannot execute him. Otherwise, we'd lose the protection the Amulet of Kings is granting us."

Amicus: "According to the official doctrine of the Alessian Order, that beast is a pet St. Alessia kept. This shall be the truth from now on. We will prepare the new Emperor Belharza separately. So it has been decided."

Pelan: "The Amulet of Kings will reject him. I implore you, reconsider this decision!"

Amicus: "We do not choose what refuses to choose us. So we choose our own truth. If belief determines what God is, then we shall fabricate memories, then we shall fabricate history itself. If the blood of Ada flows in that beast's veins, then so be it. We will test our faith, and we will dissect and reshape God with words of our own. We will create an Emperor Belharza tailored to our wishes from that beast."

Pelan: "People like us cannot create anything. Even if you paint over lies with more lies, the truth will always be revealed."

Amicus: "That may be so, but not yet. So there is no problem, is there? We can imagine. We can create. Gods are merely spirits, after all, and they must take the forms people believe in. Soon, the demigod Morihaus will be fused into one such form. And when that happens, the horns of Emperor Belharza will fall off and he will be fully human."

Pelan: "Is this why you slaughtered even the friendly Ayleids? Because they remember the forms of St. Alessia, Morihaus, and Pelinal?"

Amicus: "Indeed. Human lives are so short compared to the elven ones. Not a single human remembers our heroes anymore, not even us. But to the elves, they were terror incarnate. The horror was still so vivid in their eyes that it became an endless recurring nightmare ... The very sight of gods was like pain itself. We simply spared them the nightmares."

Pelan: "...This is a rebellion. Are you going to rebel even against the Gods by slaughtering the elves?"

Amicus: "Of course not. We will make a God of our own. May what we believe in be what all believe in."

Pelan: "Then how are we any different from the Ayleids of old? Reconsider, I beg you!"

Amicus: "There is no difference. There is no difference whatsoever between the races of Man, Elf, and lesser races."

Pelan: "So you finally understand ..."

Amicus: "They are the same. We are all the same. And that is why we are the only ones who should remain."