The Stray Khajiit of Chorrol
by Ja'zhan
[pagebreak]

This is a story of a murderous villain who was sentenced to death in the town of Chorrol in Cyrod.

The Khajiit named Ja'zeri was a bastard child. When he was still a kitten, he was abandoned in the mountains and a shepherd from Chorrol picked him up. The shepherd brought up the kitten, but Ja'zeri grew up like a wild beast. The shepherd gave no education to the kitten, and when he could walk, he forced Ja'zeri to chase the sheep like a sheepdog. No matter how rainy or cold it was, Ja'zeri was poorly clothed and hardly got enough food to even survive. And the shepherd felt no shame or guilt over this abuse. On the contrary, he believed he had a right to treat Ja'zeri like this, for he found Ja'zeri left alone like garbage and so he treated Ja'zeri as unfit to even eat. Ja'zeri was desperate to find anything to eat, but he was not allowed even the leftovers of the food for livestock. Once, when he stole some food, the shepherd even severy whipped him as a punishment. So Ja'zeri lived a miserable life as a kitten, but when he grew up and his body became strong enough, he ran away from the shepherd. And so he became a thief.

So this wild beast earned his keep as a laborer in the town of Chorrol. All the gold he earned during the day he spent on alcohol. He kept living like a rogue and in the end, he killed an old man and took his belongings. Ja'zeri was immediately arrested, put on trial, and sentenced to death within the same day. People of Chorrol felt no sympathy for him. When Ja'zeri was thrown into prison, the Alessians, followers of Marukh, and some philanthropists began flocking to this wild beast. In "kindness", they taught him to read and write and even lectured him on the scripture. As a result, the beast named Ja'zeri finally realized his sins.

So Ja'zeri wrote a letter to the court. "This one was a worthless rogue, but thanks to you, Alessia shone a light in his heart," it said.

Then all the philanthropists in Chorrol stirred. High nobility and educated people suddenly stormed to the prison in droves to kiss and embrace Ja'zeri.

"You are our brother, you have been blessed by Alessia!"

Ja'zeri wept. "Yes. Ja'zeri was saved by her grace. When he was a kitten, Ja'zeri was happy to be fed even like a pig, but at last, Ja'zeri received the grace of Alessia and he can die in her arms."

The philanthropists of Chorrol burst into tears then.
 
"Yes, Ja'zeri, you must die. Those who shed blood must die in the arms of our lady Alessia. It is not your fault that you did not know about Alessia. But even so, you should not have shed blood. Therefore, Ja'zeri, you must die."

The last day arrived, and poor Ja'zeri cried out repeatedly: "Today is the best day of Ja'zeri's life! Because Ja'zeri is going to join Alessia by her side!"

And the people of Chorrol said:

"Yes, this is your happiest day of all. Because you are going to join Alessia by her side!"

The people followed Ja'zeri's carriage. Eventually, they reached the execution grounds.

"Come on, brother. You must die!" they screamed at Ja'zeri. "Come on, die, for you have received the grace of Alessia!"

And so, the people who called Ja'zeri their brother beheaded him in their "kindness".